                                HHS Public Access
                                Author manuscript
                                Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.




Author Manuscript
                    Published in final edited form as:
                     Neuron. 2018 March 21; 97(6): 1382–1393.e7. doi:10.1016/j.neuron.2018.02.007.



                    Attentional changes in either criterion or sensitivity are
                    associated with robust modulations in lateral prefrontal cortex
                    Thomas Zhihao Luo1,2,3 and John H.R. Maunsell1
                    1Department of Neurobiology, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA



                    Summary




Author Manuscript
                         Visual attention is associated with neuronal changes across the brain, and these widespread signals
                         are generally assumed to underlie a unitary mechanism of attention. However, attention-related
                         effects on performance can be partitioned using signal detection theory into changes in either the
                         subject’s criterion or sensitivity. Neuronal modulations associated with only sensitivity changes
                         were previously observed in visual cortex, raising the questions of which structures mediate
                         attention-related changes in criterion and whether individual neurons are involved in multiple
                         components of attention. Here we recorded from monkey lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) and
                         found that in contrast to visual cortex, neurons in LPFC changed their firing rates, pairwise
                         correlation, and Fano factor when the subject changed either its criterion or its sensitivity. These
                         results indicate that attention-related neuronal modulations in separate brain regions are not a
                         monolithic signal and instead can be linked to distinct behavioral changes.




Author Manuscript
                    eTOC Blurb
                         Luo and Maunsell show that the modulations in prefrontal cortex correspond to multiple
                         components of attention and differ from modulations in visual cortex, indicating that different
                         brain structures underlie distinct attentional mechanisms and that attention is not a unitary process.


                    Introduction
                                      When attention is directed to a location in visual space, the activity of visually responsive
                                      neurons changes throughout the brain (Krauzlis et al., 2013; Maunsell, 2015; Moore and
                                      Zirnsak, 2017). When attention is directed within a neuron’s receptive field, its firing rate
                                      typically increases relative to when attention is elsewhere. Changes in firing rates associated




Author Manuscript
                    Correspondence: thomas.zhihao.luo@gmail.com (T.Z.L.); maunsell@uchicago.edu (J.H.R.M.).
                    2Present address: Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, 08540, USA
                    3Lead Contact
                    Publisher's Disclaimer: This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our
                    customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting, typesetting, and review of
                    the resulting proof before it is published in its final citable form. Please note that during the production process errors may be
                    discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain.
                    Author Contributions
                    T.Z.L. and J.H.R.M. designed the experiments, performed the surgeries, and wrote the paper. T.Z.L. performed the experiments and
                    analyzed the data.
                    Declaration of Interests
                    The authors declare no competing interests.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                               Page 2


                                       with visuospatial attention are observed in the visual, parietal, and prefrontal regions of the




Author Manuscript
                                       cerebral cortex (Wurtz and Mohler, 1976; Lynch et al., 1977; Moran and Desimone, 1985),
                                       as well as in the superior colliculus and thalamus (Ignashchenkova et al., 2003; McAlonan et
                                       al., 2008; Briggs et al., 2013). Except for the retina, every brain region examined that
                                       contains neurons with spatially selective visual responses has been shown to contain signals
                                       related to visuospatial attention. While these modulations have been characterized by many
                                       studies since first observed in the superior colliculus (Goldberg and Wurtz, 1972), it remains
                                       unclear how they give rise to the behavioral effects associated with visuospatial attention. In
                                       particular, it is unknown whether distinct behavioral changes related to visuospatial attention
                                       depend on separate or the same brain areas.

                                       When attention is directed to a visual location, an observer detects a higher proportion of
                                       targets at that location and responds to targets there with shorter delays (Posner et al., 1980;
                                       Bashinski and Bacharach, 1980). When the target is barely visible, attention can reliably




Author Manuscript
                                       make the difference between a successful detection and failure. In single-neuron recording
                                       studies, when an animal shows an increase in target detection rate (i.e., hit rate) without
                                       changes in the stimulus or eye movements, concomitant neuronal changes are considered to
                                       be correlates of visuospatial attention.

                                       However, the attention-related improvement in hit rate can be partitioned into two
                                       independent components using signal detection theory: either changes in the subject’s
                                       criterion (c) or changes in the subject’s sensitivity (d′) (Figure 1A; Bashinski and
                                       Bacharach, 1980; Müller and Findlay, 1987; Downing, 1988; Hawkins et al., 1990; Müller
                                       and Humphreys, 1991; Wyart et al., 2012; Luo and Maunsell, 2015; Sridharan et al., 2017;
                                       Arcizet et al., 2017). A subject’s criterion corresponds to how readily the subject reports a
                                       target or withholds from such a report. Adopting a more liberal criterion (a decrease in c) at




Author Manuscript
                                       a visual location consists in responding more frequently at that location, resulting in more
                                       targets being detected there even when the stimulus is unchanged. A subject’s sensitivity
                                       corresponds to the ability to discriminate between a target and a nontarget. Enhancing
                                       sensitivity (increasing d′) at a location also results in more targets detected at that location.
                                       The distinction between criterion and sensitivity is crucial because any improvement in an
                                       observer’s hit rate can be equivalently brought about by a decrease in c or an increase in d′
                                       (Figure 1B). These two changes are differentiated by the subject’s false alarm rate. An
                                       improvement in hit rate brought about by a decrease in c is associated with a higher false
                                       alarm rate, while the same increase in hit rate brought about by an increase in d′ is
                                       associated with a lower false alarm rate.

                                       Because single-neuron studies typically have operationalized visuospatial attention using




Author Manuscript
                                       only hit rates, it is unclear how signals across the brain relate to these two components of
                                       attention. We previously designed a task for monkeys that isolated these two behavioral
                                       changes and found that neuronal modulations in visual cortical area V4 are associated with
                                       changes in sensitivity, but not with changes in criterion (Luo and Maunsell, 2015). This
                                       previous result indicates that at least in this task, changes in behavioral criterion depend on
                                       brain regions other than V4, and therefore suggests that separate brain regions contribute in
                                       distinct ways to visuospatial attention. Consistent with this interpretation, a recent study



                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                              Page 3


                                       suggests that the superior colliculus contributes to visuospatial attention primarily through




Author Manuscript
                                       changes in the subject’s criterion rather than sensitivity (Sridharan et al., 2017).

                                       Yet it remains unclear what neuronal signals are associated with attention-related changes in
                                       criterion, and whether criterion-related neuronal changes are qualitatively similar to the
                                       signals typically correlated with attention. To address these questions, we recorded from
                                       neurons in lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) while monkeys changed either their criterion or
                                       sensitivity at specific visual locations. Neuronal changes in LPFC have been correlated with
                                       spatially-selective changes in response readiness (Boch and Goldberg, 1989; Boussad and
                                       Wise, 1993) and in target detection (Lennert and Martinez-Trujillo, 2011). However, because
                                       previous studies recording from LPFC have not controlled the subject’s criterion and
                                       sensitivity, it is unknown to which component of attention the modulations in LPFC
                                       correspond.




Author Manuscript
                                       We found that visual responses in LPFC were robustly modulated when the subject changed
                                       either criterion or sensitivity. Because the modulations in LPFC differ qualitatively from
                                       those in visual cortical area V4, which are correlated with changes only in sensitivity, the
                                       results demonstrate that attention-related modulations in different brain structures are not a
                                       unitary signal and instead relate to distinct behavioral components of attention.


                       Results
                       Isolation of behavioral changes in either criterion or sensitivity
                                       We trained two monkeys on a change detection task that isolated spatially selective changes
                                       in either the subject’s criterion or its sensitivity (Figure 2A; Luo & Maunsell, 2015). In each
                                       trial, two stimuli (“samples”) appeared concurrently for 400 ms. After a delay of 150-250




Author Manuscript
                                       ms, a single stimulus (“test”) appeared at one of the two sample locations selected at
                                       random. The monkey had to saccade to the test if it differed in orientation from the sample at
                                       the same location. The probability of an orientation change between the samples and the test
                                       was 0.5. If no change occurred, the monkey had to wait and saccade to a second test
                                       stimulus, which always differed from the sample. The response to the first test in each trial
                                       was categorized as a hit (H), miss (M), false alarm (FA), or correct rejection (CR), and these
                                       responses were used to compute c and d′.

                                       To control the subject’s criterion and sensitivity, we titrated the reward given for a H or a CR
                                       separately at each stimulus location. The subject’s criterion was primarily controlled by the
                                       ratio of the reward for a H to the reward for a CR (“H:CR reward ratio”, Figure 2B-C). A
                                       larger H:CR reward ratio at a location encouraged a more lenient criterion (i.e., lower or
                                       more negative c) at that location, while a smaller H:CR reward ratio encouraged a more




Author Manuscript
                                       stringent criterion (i.e., higher or more positive c). The subject’s sensitivity was primarily
                                       controlled by the average reward across H and CR. A larger average reward at a location
                                       results in a higher sensitivity at that location. These reward contingencies were varied
                                       between two task conditions of each daily session to isolate a change in either the subject’s
                                       criterion (in a “Δc isolation session”) or its sensitivity (in a “Δd′ isolation session”) at each
                                       stimulus location.



                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                              Page 4


                                       We isolated behavioral changes in 48 sessions: 12 sessions of criterion change and 12




Author Manuscript
                                       sessions of sensitivity change performed by each of two monkeys (Figure 2C-F). Three other
                                       sessions in which we failed to adequately isolate a behavioral change were excluded.
                                       Behavioral changes were spatially specific, as demonstrated by the counterphase change in
                                       behavior between the two stimulus locations (Figure S1A), and therefore not due to global
                                       changes such as arousal. Similar changes in hit rate were obtained with sensitivity changes
                                       and criterion changes (Figure 2D). Behavioral control was prioritized at the stimulus
                                       location contralateral to the electrode array at the ipsilateral location (STAR Methods).
                                       Among the 48 sessions with satisfactory isolation at the contralateral location, 33 sessions
                                       also achieved isolation at the ipsilateral location (Figure S1B).

                       Neurons were recorded from lateral prefrontal cortex and tracked across days
                                       In the right hemisphere of each monkey, we implanted a pair of 6×8 Utah microelectrode




Author Manuscript
                                       arrays anterior to the arcuate sulcus, either above or below the principal sulcus. The arrays
                                       overlapped with Walker’s areas 8A, 45, and 46 (Walker, 1940), and according to the map by
                                       Petrides and Pandya (1999), the areas 8Ad, 8Av, 9/46v, 45B, and 45A (Figure S2). We refer
                                       to these areas as lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC).

                                       We recorded from neuronal units during the 48 behavioral isolations described above. In
                                       each daily session, two Gabor stimuli were placed in opposite hemifields, and their positions
                                       and orientations were varied across days. On a typical day, we recorded from 94 units (11
                                       fully-isolated single units and 83 partially-isolated units or multiunit clusters).

                                       Because it is highly likely that the Utah arrays recorded from the same neurons across days
                                       (Dickey et al., 2009), we implemented the classification algorithm by Fraser and Schwartz
                                       (2012) to determine whether units in separate sessions represent the same neurons (STAR




Author Manuscript
                                       Methods). The classifier was calibrated to produce similar error rates for two types of errors:
                                       a decoy error in which different neurons were misclassified as the same neuron, and a drop
                                       error in which the same neuron was misclassified as two different neurons. The chosen
                                       classifier had a median decoy error rate of 0.0125 and drop error rate of 0.0121(Figure S3A-
                                       B). Sixty-two percent of units were recorded in more than one session, and the same unit
                                       could be recorded in sessions more than 30 days apart (Figure S3C-D). Among 4,843 units
                                       encountered, 1,088 were classified as unique.

                       Spatial selectivity was indexed using a memory-guided saccade task
                                       Neurons in LPFC typically have extensive receptive fields that overlap with both visual
                                       hemifields (Funahashi et al., 1990). To study neuronal activity related to spatial attention, we
                                       measured the degree to which each neuron differentiated the two stimulus locations. At the




Author Manuscript
                                       start of each day, the animal performed a memory-guided saccade task. In this task, a target
                                       appeared for 400 ms in either the left or right hemifield, at the centers of the two Gabors
                                       subsequently displayed in the attention task. After a delay of 750 to 1000 ms, the fixation
                                       point disappeared, and the animal saccaded to the remembered target location for a reward.

                                       We computed a spatial selectivity index (SSI) for each neuron based on its activity after the
                                       target onset (SSIvisual), during the delay period (SSIdelay), before the saccade (SSIpresac), and
                                       after the saccade (SSIdelay; Figures 3A-B). The SSI was equal to the area under the curve of

                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                               Page 5


                                       a receiver operating characteristic analysis that classified the contralateral and ipsilateral




Author Manuscript
                                       responses during a given trial epoch. An SSI > 0.5 indicates stronger activity associated with
                                       the contralateral target or saccade than the corresponding ipsilateral event.

                                       The distribution of SSIvisual was modestly skewed toward 1 (median = 0.526; p = 10−37;
                                       Figure 3C), indicating that more neurons in LPFC prefer contralateral stimuli than ipsilateral
                                       stimuli, as observed previously (Funahashi et al., 1990; Lennert and Martinez-Trujillo,
                                       2011). The distributions were also greater than 0.5, though very modestly, for SSIdelay
                                       (median = 0.505, p = 10−5) and SSIpresac (median = 0.504, p = 10−4). SSIvisual was larger
                                       than all other SSI (maximum p = 10−10 across pairwise comparisons; firing rates were
                                       distribution-matched using bin sizes of 1 Hz). These results indicate that neurons in LPFC
                                       show stronger contralateral preference in their visual responses than in their delay-related or
                                       saccade-related responses.




Author Manuscript
                                       No reliable partial correlation was observed between SSIvisual and either SSIpresac or
                                       SSIpostsac (Figure 3D). A previous study reported overlap between visual receptive fields and
                                       presaccadic movement fields in LPFC (Bullock et al., 2017), which predicts a correlation
                                       between visual and presaccadic selectivity. Similarly, when we examined the correlation
                                       between SSIvisual and SSIpresac without controlling for selectivity in the delay period, we
                                       found a significant though modest correlation (ρ = 0.22, p = 10−15). Therefore, in our
                                       dataset, the correlation between visual selectivity and presaccadic selectivity was largely due
                                       to correlations between visual and delay-related selectivity and between delay-related and
                                       presaccadic selectivity.

                                       For subsequent analyses, we use as an example the subset of units with reliable contralateral
                                       preference in their visual responses, with SSIvisual > 0.75 (Figure 3E), but we also show that




Author Manuscript
                                       results generalize for a broad range of SSIvisual thresholds for contralateral neurons. We
                                       focus on contralateral-preferring visual neurons because they outnumber ipsilateral-
                                       preferring cells and also because only 33/48 sessions had achieved behavioral isolation at
                                       ipsilateral location (Figure S1B). No difference in SSI was observed between neurons
                                       recorded during sessions isolating Δc and sessions isolating Δd′ (Wilcoxon rank-sum test:
                                       maximum across different types of SSI was p = 0.39).

                       Firing rates were modulated when the subject changed either its criterion or its sensitivity
                                       Figure 4A shows peri-event time histograms (PETH) of visual, contra-selective neurons
                                       (SSIvisual > 0.75) aligned to three trial events: sample onset, test onset, and saccade. These
                                       neurons robustly increased their responses to the sample stimulus when the animal either
                                       lowered its criterion or elevated its sensitivity. To quantify the modulations in firing rates, we




Author Manuscript
                                       computed an index based on spike counts 80-480 ms after the onset of the sample (STAR
                                       Methods). The sample period was the most informative for assessing attention-related
                                       modulations because no behavioral decision or eye movement had yet occurred during this
                                       period. The modulation index associated with Δc, MIΔc, was defined such that MIΔc > 0
                                       indicated a stronger response when the animal responded more frequently to the
                                       contralateral location. The modulation index associated with Δd′, MIΔd′, was defined such
                                       that MIΔd′ > 0 indicated a stronger response when the animal was more accurate in
                                       discriminating between orientation changes and matches at the contralateral position.


                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                             Page 6


                                       We found the modulation indices related to either Δc or Δd′ were substantially and reliably




Author Manuscript
                                       greater than zero (Figure 4B-C). The reliability of these effects held for a broad range of
                                       SSIvisual thresholds. Modulations related to Δd′ were stronger than modulations related to
                                       Δc, but the two types of modulations were qualitatively similar, indicating that previously
                                       documented modulations in LPFC could reflect either behavioral change. These results
                                       indicate that visual neurons in LPFC encode robust signals related to behavioral changes in
                                       either criterion or sensitivity.

                                       We next examined how attention-related modulations depend on other spatial selectivity
                                       indices. The trial-averaged firing rates of all units during the attention task were computed in
                                       non-overlapping 200 ms bins. For each bin, we computed the partial correlation between the
                                       firing rate MI and each of Δ, while controlling for the other three SSIs (Figure 5). As
                                       expected from the previous analysis, there was reliable partial correlation between SSIvisual
                                       and either Δc- or Δd′-related MI during the sample period. This correlation became negative




Author Manuscript
                                       during the test period and after the saccade, indicating that attention-related modulations can
                                       reverse sign after the animal completed a decision. Spatial selectivity during the delay
                                       (SSIdelay) correlated modestly with the attention-related modulations during the test period.
                                       Also, presaccadic spatial selectivity (SSIpresac) correlated with attention-related modulation
                                       in the sample period. These findings indicate that attention-related modulations depend on
                                       spatial selectivity measured in multiple different periods of the memory-guided saccade task,
                                       though the dependency appears to be strongest for the period after target presentation
                                       (SSIvisual).

                                       Lastly, we measured the extent to which firing rate modulations during the sample period
                                       (80-480 ms after sample onset) can be explained using the SSIs. We fitted linear models to
                                       Δc-related and Δd′-related firing rates modulations during the sample period and selected




Author Manuscript
                                       the best model for each type of modulation according to the Bayesian Information Criterion
                                       (Table S1). The proportion of variance explained by the optimal model was ~18% for Δd′-
                                       related modulations and ~13% for Δc-related modulations. The optimal models had a small
                                       intercept term (MIΔc = 0.14, p = 10−4, MIΔd′ = 0.01, p = 10−21, t-test), indicating that
                                       neurons in LPFC show lateralized Δc-related and Δd′-related modulation even if they
                                       display no spatial selectivity that could be detected in a memory-guided saccade task. We
                                       confirmed this to be the case by selecting neurons with SSIvisual, SSIdelay, SSIpresac, and
                                       SSIpostsac all within the interval of [0.4, 0.6] and subsampling this population until the
                                       population average for each of all four SSIs was within [0.49, 0.51]. This non-selective
                                       population indeed showed small but significant modulation (mean MIΔc = 0.016, p = 0.05;
                                       mean MIΔd′ = 0.019, p = 0.008; Wilcoxon signed-rank test).




Author Manuscript
                       Pairwise correlation and Fano factor were also modulated in association with either
                       behavioral change
                                       In addition to changes in firing rates, other attention-related neuronal modulations in visual
                                       cortex were found to be associated with behavioral changes in only sensitivity, but not
                                       criterion (Luo and Maunsell, 2015). These include reductions in spike count correlation
                                       between pairs of simultaneously recorded neurons (pairwise correlation) and across-trial
                                       variability in a neuron’s firing rate (indexed as Fano factor). Pairwise correlation in



                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                              Page 7


                                       prefrontal cortex has been used to decode the animal’s trial-by-trial attentional state




Author Manuscript
                                       (Tremblay et al., 2015) and spatial working memory (Leavitt et al., 2017), but an attention-
                                       related reduction in correlation has not yet been reported in prefrontal cortex. Attention-
                                       related reductions in Fano factor were not observed in prefrontal cortex despite robust
                                       attention-related increases in firing rate, but these investigations focused on the frontal eye
                                       fields and not LPFC (Chang et al., 2012; Purcell et al., 2012).

                                       Here we found that either lowering criterion or elevating sensitivity was associated with a
                                       reduction in both pairwise correlation and Fano factor among contra-selective visual neurons
                                       during the sample period (Figure 6). The information in the neural population for
                                       discriminating between the two orientations, measured as linear Fisher information
                                       (Kanitscheider et al., 2015), increased modestly in association with either a decrease in
                                       criterion or an increase in sensitivity, though these changes in population coding did not
                                       depend on changes in pairwise correlation (Figure S5). The changes in pairwise correlation




Author Manuscript
                                       and Fano factor further support the idea that robust neuronal signals associated with either
                                       component of visuospatial attention are present in LPFC.

                       Reliable Δc-related modulations were observed in the population activity in LPFC but not
                       in area V4
                                       In a previous experiment (Luo and Maunsell, 2015), neuronal responses were recorded from
                                       area V4 in visual cortex while behavioral changes in either criterion or sensitivity were
                                       isolated using the same task as used here. We therefore directly compared the modulations in
                                       the activity of visual neurons between the two areas (Figure 7A). Both areas showed robust
                                       Δd′-related modulations in firing rates, pairwise correlation, and Fano factor. However,
                                       whereas LPFC had reliable Δc-related modulations, the Δc-related modulations in V4 in
                                       firing rate and Fano factor were weak. Moreover, the Δc-related modulations in pairwise




Author Manuscript
                                       correlation in V4 were opposite in sign to usual attention-related changes in correlation
                                       (Cohen and Maunsell, 2009; Mitchell et al., 2009).

                                       It appears that neuronal responses in V4 are associated with only one component of
                                       visuospatial attention, while LPFC is associated with both. But it might instead be that Δc-
                                       related modulations were detectable in LPFC only because attentional modulations are
                                       generally stronger there, continuing the increase of attentional modulation with the level of
                                       visual cortical hierarchy (Maunsell and Cook, 2002). To evaluate these two possibilities, we
                                       fitted two models to the Δc- and Δd′-related modulations in the two brain areas (STAR
                                       Methods). In model 1, the mean of Δc-related changes across neurons in V4 was set to zero,
                                       while the population-means of Δd′-related modulations in V4 and of Δc- and Δd′-related
                                       modulations in LPFC were free to vary. In model 2, two parameters were assigned to the




Author Manuscript
                                       population-means of Δc- and Δd′-related modulations, and a third parameter determined the
                                       multiplicative relationship between the population-averaged modulations in V4 and LPFC.
                                       The two models were fitted using maximum likelihood estimation. Because the two models
                                       had the same number of parameters, they were compared using their maximized likelihoods
                                       (Figure 7B-C). Across a broad range of SSIvisual thresholds, the likelihood of model 1 was
                                       significantly higher than that of model 2 for firing rate and pairwise correlation. For Fano
                                       factor, the likelihood of model 1 was also larger, but it was significantly larger within only a



                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                              Page 8


                                       limited range of SSIvisual thresholds, perhaps due to the typically smaller effect sizes of Fano




Author Manuscript
                                       factor modulations. This analysis indicates that the difference in attention-related changes
                                       between V4 and LPFC is not merely a stronger modulation in the latter, but that LPFC
                                       provides signals associated with a component of attention that were absent in population-
                                       averaged activity in V4.

                                       However, individual neurons in V4 were modulated in association with Δc. A greater than
                                       expected fraction of V4 neurons significantly changed their firing rates in association with
                                       changes in behavioral criterion (6.5% of units at the p = 0.01 threshold), even though firing
                                       rates across these neurons averaged to near zero (Figure 7D-E). Therefore, when a subject
                                       changes its criterion, while firing rate changes are not detected in the population-averaged
                                       activity in V4, a small fraction of individual neurons significantly changed their firing rates.

                       Modulations related to criterion and sensitivity changes were correlated across LPFC




Author Manuscript
                       neurons
                                       Firing rate modulations related to either Δc or Δd′ were often observed for units recorded
                                       from the same electrodes (Figure S6), raising the question of the extent to which Δc- and Δd
                                       ′-related modulations are correlated across LPFC neurons. A correlation would indicate that
                                       Δc- and Δd′-related modulations are combined within LPFC or in a common input, while a
                                       lack of correlation indicates that LPFC neurons receive independent Δc- and Δd′-related
                                       inputs. While we did not isolate Δc and Δd′ on the same day, we can measure the
                                       correlation across units that were recorded in multiple sessions and identified by the tracking
                                       algorithm to be putatively the same neuron.

                                       Figure 8A plots the MIs of each putative unit with a SSIvisual > 0.75 from each pair of Δc-
                                       isolation and Δd′-isolation sessions in which that unit was recorded. Putative units showed a




Author Manuscript
                                       strong correlation between the two modulations, with the Δd′-related MI averaging about
                                       1.7 times the Δc-related MI. The correlation suggests that Δc- and Δd′-related signals are at
                                       least partially combined within LPFC or have partially overlapping inputs.

                                       The measured correlation between Δc- and Δd′- related MIs should be considered a lower-
                                       bound, owing to noise arising from finite trial counts, error in tracking units across days, and
                                       uncontrolled behavioral difference between sessions. To assess how much these factors
                                       reduce the measured correlation, we sought to normalize the Δc/Δd′ correlation by the
                                       same-isolation correlation, i.e., the correlation between MIs related to the same behavioral
                                       change, which we assume to approximate the maximum correlation that can be extracted
                                       given the various measurement errors (STAR Methods).

                                       Figure 8B plots the MIs from each pair of sessions with the same behavioral isolation for




Author Manuscript
                                       each putative unit with a SSIvisual > 0.75 that was recorded during both of those sessions.
                                       The correlation between same-isolation pairs was similar to that measured for Δc/Δd′ pairs,
                                       suggesting that the correlation in Figure 8A is about as strong as can be expected given the
                                       various sources of measurement error. Across a broad range of minimum SSIvisual, the Δc/Δd
                                       ′ correlation was statistically indistinguishable from the same-isolation correlation (Figure
                                       8C). Normalized by the same-isolation correlation, the Δc/Δd′ correlation was
                                       indistinguishable from one (Figure 8D). This result is consistent with LPFC neurons


                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                              Page 9


                                       receiving a common input that combines Δc- and Δd′-related modulations or that separate
                                       Δc- and Δd′-related inputs are combined within LPFC.




Author Manuscript
                                       In contrast to LPFC, the normalized Δc/Δd′ correlation within V4 pairs was
                                       indistinguishable from zero (slightly negative if a more liberal statistical criterion than p =
                                       0.05 were used; Figure 8D). The normalized Δc/Δd′ correlations were reliably different
                                       between LPFC and V4 across thresholds of minimum SSIvisual. These findings support the
                                       idea that the attention-related modulations in LPFC and V4 are part of distinct mechanisms.

                                       These results were verified by two additional analyses. First, because MI pairs sampled from
                                       different isolations were on average more separated in time than MI pairs sampled from the
                                       same isolation (Figure S7A), the correlations shown in Figure 8C-D were computed after
                                       matching the distributions of the number of intervening sessions between Δc/Δd′ pairs and
                                       same-isolation pairs (Figure S7B). The same analyses performed without distribution-




Author Manuscript
                                       matching showed qualitatively similar results (Figure S7C-D). A second analysis that
                                       computed correlations across units rather than pairs of MIs also showed a reliable difference
                                       in Δc/Δd′ correlations between LPFC and V4 (Figure S7E).


                       Discussion
                                       A challenge in understanding visuospatial attention involves partitioning and organizing its
                                       related neuronal signals across the brain. Classical signal detection theory is useful for this
                                       purpose because it accurately describes performance in simple perceptual tasks using two
                                       orthogonal parameters (Green and Swets, 1966; Macmillan and Creelman, 2004). We
                                       hypothesized that the brain areas related with visuospatial attention can be distinguished
                                       according to whether the neuronal modulations therein correspond to behavioral changes in
                                       criterion, sensitivity, or both. This hypothesis was suggested by our previous result from




Author Manuscript
                                       visual cortex showing that attention-related signals in area V4 were associated with only
                                       changes in the subject’s sensitivity but not its criterion (Luo and Maunsell, 2015). This
                                       previous result suggests that other brain areas besides V4 underlie changes in the subject’s
                                       criterion. However, it was unclear what kind of neuronal signals are related to attention-
                                       related criterion changes.

                                       We found that the responses of visual neurons in LPFC were robustly modulated in
                                       association with changes in the subject’s criterion. Criterion-related modulations were
                                       qualitatively similar to sensitivity-related modulations, and the two modulations were
                                       correlated on a cell-by-cell basis. These results are qualitatively different from previous
                                       results in area V4, therefore indicating that attention-related modulations in different brain
                                       areas can be meaningfully distinguished according to whether they correspond to behavioral




Author Manuscript
                                       changes in the subject’s sensitivity, criterion, or both. This scheme provides a step forward
                                       from treating neuronal changes related to attention as a monolithic signal, as has been often
                                       done in neurophysiological studies of visuospatial attention.

                       Is criterion change a component of visuospatial attention?
                                       Changes in an observer’s criterion are consistent with an aspect shared by many definitions
                                       of attention: the “selection” of a stimulus to be perceived in greater detail, held in working


                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                              Page 10


                                       memory, or acted on (Carrasco, 2011; Desimone and Duncan, 1995; Knudsen, 2007). This




Author Manuscript
                                       aspect of attention is consistent with the way criterion changes are operationalized here:
                                       when a subject lowers its criterion at a location, the subject “selects” the stimulus to be a
                                       likely target for an oculomotor response.

                                       Considering criterion changes to be a component of attention provides an approach for
                                       partitioning the neuronal signals across different areas. The distinction between bottom-up
                                       and top-down attention (Buschman and Miller, 2007) and between spatial and feature
                                       attention (Bichot et al., 2015) have been useful in differentiating the contributions of
                                       different brain areas. However, even within the domain of top-down spatial attention, a large
                                       number of brain areas have been implicated (Desimone and Duncan, 1995). The distinction
                                       between criterion and sensitivity allows these areas to be functionally differentiated rather
                                       than viewed as homogeneous.




Author Manuscript
                                       There is also a practical advantage in treating criterion change as a component of attention:
                                       many of the tasks that documented the neuronal signals related to visuospatial attention were
                                       designed such that the subject could have changed its criterion to improve its performance
                                       (Luo and Maunsell, 2015; Sridharan et al., 2017). To exclude behavioral criterion as a
                                       component of attention implies excluding or raising serious doubts regarding many studies
                                       included in the neurophysiological literature of attention. The potential contribution of
                                       changes in criterion or other decisional processes to the effects of attention is pervasive. The
                                       behavioral improvements in human observers performing the Posner cuing paradigm could
                                       depend entirely on decisional changes (Eckstein et al., 2002). The attention-related effects in
                                       not only detection tasks but also discrimination tasks could depend entirely on changes in
                                       criterion (Sridharan et al., 2017). Many current definitions of attention in the
                                       neurophysiological literature include (but do not necessarily emphasize) the decisional and




Author Manuscript
                                       oculomotor processes on which behavioral criterion likely depend (Desimone and Duncan,
                                       1995; Knudsen, 2007; Krauzlis et al., 2014; Moore and Zirnsak, 2017).

                       Attention-related neuronal changes in prefrontal cortex
                                       We found that firing rate modulations related to the two behavioral changes were highly
                                       correlated on a cell-by-cell basis. This finding suggests that Δc- and Δd′-related modulations
                                       arrive in a common signal in LPFC. However, it is also possible that Δc- and Δd′-related
                                       signals have separate origins, and that a mechanism within LPFC restricts the extent to
                                       which individual cells are modulated by either signal. Specifically, the variability in the size
                                       of attention-related modulations of firing rates across neurons in visual cortex are well
                                       explained by the strength of response normalization (Boynton, 2009; Lee and Maunsell,
                                       2009; Ni and Maunsell, 2012; Reynolds and Heeger, 2009). The correlation in Δc- and Δd′-




Author Manuscript
                                       related modulations across neurons in LPFC might arise in part because both modulations
                                       depend on normalization mechanisms within LPFC.

                                       This finding further raises the question of the extent to which the modulations in LPFC
                                       make up a generic attentional signal that does not distinguish between whether the animal
                                       has lowered its criterion, increased its sensitivity, or done both. A prominent view is that the
                                       firing rates of visual neurons in sensorimotor areas of the brain, such as the LPFC, frontal
                                       eye fields, and lateral intraparietal cortex, represents a generic “priority” or “salience” signal


                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                             Page 11


                                       that can be used either guide a saccade or to allocate attention (Thompson and Bichot, 2005;




Author Manuscript
                                       Bisley and Goldberg, 2010). Our results indicate that the modulations in LPFC can be
                                       interpreted as a generic signal of this sort, and that sensitivity changes might be more closely
                                       coupled with such a signal than are criterion changes and are therefore associated with
                                       stronger modulations. However, further studies could reveal distinctions that make the
                                       notion of any generic signal untenable.

                                       We observed reductions in the Fano factor and pairwise correlation of visual neurons when
                                       the animal changed either its criterion or its sensitivity. These two changes in spiking
                                       variability have been consistently observed in visual cortex when attention was manipulated
                                       (Cohen and Maunsell, 2009; Mitchell et al., 2007, 2009; Luo and Maunsell, 2015). In the
                                       FEF, attention-related Fano factor changes were not observed despite robust increases in
                                       firing rates (Chang et al., 2012; Purcell et al., 2012). While it is conceivable that the absence
                                       of Fano factor changes indicates different mechanisms underlying attentional changes in




Author Manuscript
                                       FEF and LPFC, reductions in Fano factor have small effect sizes. Even in visual cortex,
                                       changes in Fano factor may go undetected when increases in firing rate are readily apparent
                                       (McAdams and Maunsell, 1999). Attention-related decreases in pairwise correlation have
                                       not been reported in previous attention studies that performed multi-electrode recording in
                                       LPFC (e.g. Kadohisa et al., 2013; Tremblay et al., 2015). The association between criterion
                                       changes with changes in pairwise correlation is interesting because changes in pairwise
                                       correlation have been postulated as a mechanism for enhancing the animal’s perceptual
                                       sensitivity (Cohen and Maunsell, 2009; Mitchell et al., 2009). Our finding indicates that
                                       changes in pairwise correlation can occur even when there is no change in the animal’s
                                       perceptual sensitivity. A recent study indicates that attention-related changes in pairwise
                                       correlation in visual cortex can arise from response normalization mechanisms (Verhoef and
                                       Maunsell, 2017). Both changes in firing rate and in pairwise correlation related to behavioral




Author Manuscript
                                       changes in both criterion and sensitivity could depend to some extent on normalization
                                       mechanisms.

                       Brain structures associated with attentional changes in criterion and sensitivity
                                       We found that the attention-related modulations in LPFC are associated with changes in both
                                       the subject’s criterion and its sensitivity, whereas such modulations in area V4 of visual
                                       cortex are associated only with sensitivity changes. Two recent studies examined whether
                                       the superior colliculus (SC) contributes to attention through changes in criterion or
                                       sensitivity (Sridharan et al., 2017; Lovejoy and Krauzlis, 2017). Both studies applied a
                                       multidimensional extension to classical signal detection theory. While the definitions of
                                       criterion are not identical across these studies (and our study), they represent likely
                                       overlapping neural processes. Together these two studies indicate that SC contributes to




Author Manuscript
                                       attention through changes in both criterion and sensitivity, but with criterion being the
                                       dominant contribution.

                                       Sridharan et al., 2017 analyzed four previous studies in which the SC was perturbed, through
                                       either microstimulation or pharmacological inactivation, while subjects performed tasks that
                                       required spatial attention (Cavanaugh and Wurtz, 2004; Lovejoy and Krauzlis, 2009; Muller
                                       et al., 2004; Zénon and Krauzlis, 2012). For all the studies, the changes in behavioral



                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                           Page 12


                                       performance resulting from collicular perturbation could be explained by a change in




Author Manuscript
                                       criterion without a change in sensitivity. Furthermore, for two studies in which models were
                                       directly fitted to the data, criterion changes alone (Zénon and Krauzlis, 2012) and a
                                       combination of changes in criterion and sensitivity (Lovejoy and Krauzlis, 2009) best
                                       accounted for the data. The analyses in Sridharan et al., 2017 therefore suggest that the
                                       predominant contribution of SC to spatial attention involves changing the subject’s criterion
                                       across different visual locations.

                                       Lovejoy and Krauzlis (2017) trained monkeys to discriminate the direction of a moving
                                       stimulus that could appear at a random one of four locations (uncued condition) or appear at
                                       a cued location (cued condition). The effect of attention on performance was defined as the
                                       increase in d′ between the uncued and the cued conditions. When SC was
                                       pharmacologically inactivated, the cue-induced increase in d′ could not be detected in the
                                       affected region of visual space, indicating that SC is necessary for attention-related




Author Manuscript
                                       enhancement in behavioral sensitivity. During inactivation, the subject’s criterion was also
                                       affected by the inactivation such that subjects were less inclined to saccade to the affected
                                       region.

                                       Given that both LPFC and SC are associated with both criterion changes and sensitivity
                                       changes, it is possible that no brain structure is entirely associated with only criterion
                                       changes. Some structures, such as V4 and LPFC, may be more strongly modulated in
                                       association with sensitivity changes than criterion changes, while others, possibly SC, are
                                       more closely linked to criterion changes. If this were the case, when animals are trained to
                                       change either only their criterion or only their sensitivity, overlapping groups of brain
                                       structures should be modulated, but to different extents.




Author Manuscript
                       Conclusion
                                       Distinguishing and organizing the widespread attention-related signals in the brain is
                                       necessary for a deeper understanding of visuospatial attention. Our results indicate that
                                       neuronal changes in different brain areas related to attention can be partitioned using the
                                       indices of criterion and sensitivity from signal detection theory. Future work capitalizing on
                                       the distinction between criterion and sensitivity will likely provide insights into the
                                       mechanisms of visuospatial attention.


                       STAR Methods
                       CONTACT FOR REAGENT AND RESOURCE SHARING
                                       Further information and requests for resources and reagents should be directed to and will be




Author Manuscript
                                       fulfilled by the Lead Contact, Thomas Zhihao Luo (thomas.zhihao.luo@gmail.com).

                       EXPERIMENTAL MODEL AND SUBJECT DETAILS
                                       Animal use procedures were approved by The University of Chicago Institutional Care and
                                       Use Committee (IACUC) and carried out in accordance with National Institute of Health
                                       standards. Two male, eight-year-old, 9-11 kg rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) were used
                                       in the study. Access to water was scheduled to training or recording sessions that occurred


                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                            Page 13


                                       1-3 hours per day. Eye movements were tracked using a video system (EyeLink 1000, 500




Author Manuscript
                                       Hz). Before training, each animal was implanted with a head post, and after training was
                                       completed, each animal was implanted with a pair of 6×8 Utah microelectrode arrays
                                       (Blackrock Microsystems) in lateral prefrontal cortex.

                       METHOD DETAILS
                                       Criterion (c) and sensitivity (d′)—Criterion was indexed as criterion location (c) as
                                       described in (Macmillan and Creelman, 2004):




                                       Φ−1 is the inverse normal cumulative distribution function. When c = 0, the subject shows no




Author Manuscript
                                       bias towards reporting either targets or nontargets. In the signal detection model (Figure 1A),
                                       this is the value on the x-axis where the two normal distributions intersect. When c < 0, the
                                       subject exhibits a bias towards reporting targets, and when c > 0, a bias towards nontargets.

                                       Sensitivity was indexed as d′,




                                       In the signal detection model, d′ is the difference between the means of the target and
                                       nontarget distributions divided by the root mean square of their standard deviations. Because
                                       we assume the standard deviation to be equal between the nontarget and target distributions
                                       and equal to 1, d′ is simply the horizontal offset between the means of two standard normal
                                       distributions. A larger d′ indicates better sensitivity. The index d′ characteristically ranges




Author Manuscript
                                       from zero to infinity, though a negative d′ value can result from sampling errors.

                                       The results here generalize for other indices of criterion (also known as response bias) used
                                       in signal detection theory, such the likelihood ratio (β). The index criterion location (c) has
                                       the advantages that c is orthogonal to d′, well-defined for d′ = 0, and measured in the same
                                       unit as that of d′ (z-scores) to facilitate comparison (Macmillan and Creelman, 1990).

                                       Attention task—Two rhesus monkeys (C and Y) performed a variant of the Posner
                                       attention task that controls the subject’s criterion and sensitivity (Figure 2A). These animals
                                       were different from those used in a similar study of V4 (Luo and Maunsell 2015). The
                                       subject began each trial by fixating for 400-600 ms within a 2°×2° square window on a
                                       video display (57 cm away, 100 Hz frame rate). Two sample stimuli (full contrast Gabors




Author Manuscript
                                       with σ = 1.5° and spatial frequency = 0.7 cycle/°) appeared for 400 ms. Gabors were in
                                       opposite hemifields, diametrically opposed across the fixation point, and each 11° from the
                                       fixation point. Positions varie d from 30° above, 30° below, or directly on the horizontal
                                       meridian. After a delay of 150-250 ms, a single test stimulus appeared at a randomly chosen
                                       one of the two stimulus locations for 400 ms. The test was equally likely to be the same as
                                       the sample that appeared at the same location or different in orientation. If the test differed
                                       from the sample, the monkey had to saccade to it within 150-500 ms to receive a juice


                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                            Page 14


                                       reward. If the test were the same as the sample, the monkey had to wait to saccade to a




Author Manuscript
                                       second test stimulus that appeared at the same location. The second test always differed from
                                       the sample, and it was used to ensure that the monkey was engaged during correct rejection
                                       trials. The monkey rarely failed to respond to the second test (<1%), and trials with such
                                       failures were excluded from analyses.

                                       The size of the orientation change was same for all trials in each session and ranged from
                                       45° to 90° across sessions. The sample and the test stimuli in each session could take on
                                       only two orientations. The orientation assigned to each sample was randomized on each trial
                                       so that the samples had to be inspected to achieve good performance. Stimulus orientation
                                       was independent between the two locations.

                                       Each trial was categorized as a hit (H), miss (M), false alarm (FA), or correct rejection (CR)
                                       based on animal’s response to the first test. A target trial was a H if the monkey responded to




Author Manuscript
                                       the changed test and an M otherwise. A nontarget trial was a FA if the monkey incorrectly
                                       responded to the unchanged first test, and it was a CR if the monkey waited to respond to the
                                       changed second test. A hit rate (H/[H + M]) and a false alarm rate (FA/[FA + CR]) were
                                       computed for each stimulus location and for each attention condition. Trials with a break in
                                       fixation ended immediately and were excluded from analyses.

                                       To control the subject’s criterion and sensitivity at each stimulus location, we titrated the
                                       reward given for a H and a CR separately at each location. The subject’s criterion was
                                       primarily influenced by the ratio of the reward for a H to the reward for a CR (“H:CR reward
                                       ratio”; Figure 2B-C). A larger H:CR reward ratio encouraged a lower criterion, while a
                                       lower ratio encouraged a higher criterion. Except for the low c condition, the ratio was
                                       typically < 1 because subjects preferred responding to the first test over waiting for the




Author Manuscript
                                       second test. The subject’s sensitivity at each location was primarily influenced by the
                                       average reward size (across H and CR) at that location. A larger average reward at a location
                                       resulted in a higher sensitivity at that location. Each day, reward contingencies were varied
                                       between two task conditions to isolate a behavioral change in either the subject’s criterion or
                                       its sensitivity.

                                       The two task conditions of each session were alternated in blocks of 180 trials. In a Δc
                                       isolation session, the blocks in which the animal was performing with a lower (more
                                       negative) c at the stimulus location contralateral to the electrode array are referred to as the
                                       “low c contra” task condition, and the other blocks the “high c contra”. Similarly, in a Δd′
                                       isolation session, blocks in which the subject was performing with a higher d′ at the
                                       contralateral location was referred to as the “high d′ contra” task condition, and the other
                                       blocks “low d′ contra” task condition. To encourage stable performance within each block,




Author Manuscript
                                       50-100 priming trials at the beginning of each block cued the animal to the reward
                                       contingencies of that block. Priming trials probed the same stimulus condition 10-20 trials in
                                       a row rather than probing the two locations randomly. These trials were excluded from
                                       analysis.

                                       After completing training, each monkey was implanted with a pair of 6×8 microelectrode
                                       arrays (Blackrock Microsystems) in its right cerebral hemisphere (Figure S2). Behavioral



                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                            Page 15


                                       isolation in each recording session was considered satisfactory if the targeted behavioral




Author Manuscript
                                       change was at least four times the off-target behavioral change (median = 26:1). More
                                       priming trials were allocated toward stabilizing behavior at the contralateral location than at
                                       the ipsilateral location, and as a result, isolation was more consistent at the contralateral
                                       location. Behavioral isolation at the contralateral location was achieved in 48 sessions, and
                                       in 33 of those sessions, isolation was also considered satisfactory at the ipsilateral location
                                       (Figure S1D). Modulations of contra-selective visual neurons were similar between sessions
                                       in which the behavior for both stimuli were successfully controlled and sessions in which
                                       only the behavior at the contralateral stimulus was successfully controlled.

                                       The 95% confidence intervals of c and d′ were computed through bootstrapping. In each of
                                       104 iterations, a random number of hits (Hrand) was drawn from a binomial distribution
                                       based on the observed number of H and M, and a random number of false alarms was
                                       similarly drawn.




Author Manuscript



                                       A hit rate, computed by dividing Hrand by the sum of observed H and M, and false alarm
                                       rate, computed by dividing FArand by the sum of observed FA and CR, were used to compute
                                       a c and d′ for that iteration. The 2.5 and 97.5 percentile across iterations made up the
                                       confidence interval.




Author Manuscript
                                       Memory-guided saccade task—Each recording session began with the animal
                                       performing a memory-guided saccade task. After fixating for 400-600 ms, a saccade target
                                       (0.4° white square) appeared for 400 ms in either the left or right hemifield at the center of
                                       the Gabors that were subsequently presented in the attention task. After a delay of 750-1000
                                       ms, the fixation point disappeared to cue the animal to make a saccade to within 5° of the
                                       remembered location of the target. At least 20 correct trials were completed at each stimulus
                                       location in each session.

                                       Tracking neurons across days—Electrophysiological signals were acquired at 200kHz.
                                       Spikes were sorted using the first and second principal components in OfflineSorter
                                       (Plexon). Fully isolated clusters were considered to be single units, but partially isolated




Author Manuscript
                                       units and small multiunit clusters were also sorted. All units were included in the tracking
                                       analysis regardless of isolation quality.

                                       To track units across sessions, we used the algorithm by Fraser and Schwartz (2012) and the
                                       associated software package on MATLAB Central: “Tracking neurons over multiple days,”
                                       identification no. 30113. Four neurophysiological features—pairwise cross-correlograms,
                                       auto-correlogram, waveform shape, and mean firing rate—were used to compute similarity



                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                           Page 16


                                       scores for each pair of units between two consecutive sessions. These neuronal metrics were




Author Manuscript
                                       computed using default parameters.

                                       A linear correlation was computed between the average waveforms of the two units being
                                       evaluated. The maximum correlation across time shifts was Z-transformed and then taken as
                                       the similarity score. Auto-correlograms were computed from 0-100 ms in 5-ms bins, and the
                                       similarity score was the Z-transformed linear correlation between two units’ auto-
                                       correlogram. The similarity score for mean firing rate was the difference between the log of
                                       mean rates.

                                       Cross-correlograms were computed from −500 to 500 ms in 100 ms bins. A cross-
                                       correlogram was calculated between each of the two units being evaluated and each of all
                                       other units present in both sessions. This results in one pair of cross-correlograms for each
                                       unit that was present in both sessions (besides the two units being evaluated). A linear




Author Manuscript
                                       correlation was computed between each pair of cross-correlogram and then Z-transformed.
                                       The mean z-score was the similarity score. Across the four neuronal metrics, the cross-
                                       correlogram provided the most useful information because many neurons were recorded
                                       simultaneously in each session, resulting in many cross-correlograms.

                                       A classifier was trained to fit multivariate Gaussian densities to the four similarity scores
                                       using a partially supervised expectation-maximization procedure. The decision boundary of
                                       the classifier was titrated to achieve similar rates of decoy errors and drop errors (Figure
                                       S3A-B). A decoy error occurs when one neuron becomes undetectable and another appears,
                                       and they are classified as the same unit. A drop error occurs when the same neuron recorded
                                       across two consecutive sessions is misclassified as two different units. The decoy error rate
                                       was measured using pairs of units from separate microelectrodes, which were most likely




Author Manuscript
                                       different units because the spacing between electrodes was at least 400 μm. The decision
                                       boundary was set using the decoy error rate. The drop error was assessed by splitting each
                                       recording session into thirds and comparing the first and last thirds as though they were
                                       separate sessions. This was a lower bound estimate of the between-session drop error rate.
                                       Across a range of decoy error rate, we computed the corresponding drop error rate. Then, we
                                       selected the decoy error rate that was closest to the median drop error rate for the tracking
                                       procedure.

                                       When multiple units were recorded from the same electrode, there might be multiple
                                       possible assignments of identity. When this occurred, an iterative procedure relabeled these
                                       units until the summed similarity scores converged to a maximum.

                                       At least two sources of errors were not measured. First, a switch error occurs when the




Author Manuscript
                                       labels are switched between two units, but at least one unit is present on both days. For a
                                       switch error to occur, both a decoy error and a drop error would have to occur. Because
                                       decoy and drop error rates are close to 1%, the switch error rate is about two orders of
                                       magnitude lower than the other two error rates. The second unmeasured error arises when a
                                       neuron becomes undetectable for a session but reemerges later. Such a neuron would be
                                       given two labels. This error was not corrected because cross-correlograms, the most reliable
                                       metric of similarity, become less useful when there are few identical neurons between two



                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                               Page 17


                                       sessions. In addition, tracking across non-consecutive sessions greatly increases the chance




Author Manuscript
                                       of decoy errors.

                                       Spatial selectivity index (SSI)—Spatial selectivity indices (SSIs) were computed using
                                       correct trials in the memory-guided saccade task (at least 20 for each location in each
                                       session). SSIvisual was computed based on a neuron’s peak activity during visual target
                                       presentation. The 100 ms time window with the maximal firing rate was selected from
                                       among three hundred 100 ms windows ranging from [0, 100] ms to [300, 400] ms after the
                                       onset of the visual target. The time window of peak response was independently selected for
                                       contralateral target trials and ipsilateral target trials. The peak responses to the target at the
                                       two positions were compared using a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. The
                                       resulting area under the ROC curve was taken as the SSI.

                                       Other SSIs were computed similarly but using different time windows. SSIdelay was




Author Manuscript
                                       computed based the peak firing rate in a 100 ms time window selected from [250, 350] ms to
                                       [550, 650] ms relative to target offset. SSIpresac was based on a window between [−300,
                                       −200] ms to [−100, 0] ms relative to saccade onset, which was defined as the time when the
                                       eyes left the fixation window. Finally, SSIpostsac was based on a window between [0, 100]
                                       ms to [200, 300] ms relative to saccade onset.

                                       The SSI ranges from 0 to 1. SSI > 0.5 indicates a stronger response to the contralateral target
                                       or saccade than to the ipsilateral event and SSI < 0.5 indicates the reverse. The time window
                                       for indexing selectivity was varied for each neuron according to its peak response because
                                       neurons showed a range of visual and saccade-related latencies. This did not bias the SSI
                                       away from 0.5 because separate time windows were independently selected for contralateral
                                       and ipsilateral events. Varying the counting window for each neuron to select its maximal




Author Manuscript
                                       response has been used previously to characterize spatial selectivity of neuronal responses in
                                       prefrontal cortex (Bruce and Goldberg, 1985; Funahashi et al., 1991), though other studies
                                       used the same counting window for all neurons (Thompson et al., 2005; Gregoriou et al.,
                                       2012).

                                       Modulation index (Ml) and peri-event time histogram (PETH)—A firing rate
                                       modulation index (MI) was computed for each neuron during the period 80-480 ms after the
                                       onset of the sample stimulus. The MI was computed using trial-averaged firing rates
                                       from the pair of task conditions in each isolation session:




Author Manuscript




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                            Page 18


                                       MIΔc > 0 indicates stronger firing rates when the animal responded more frequently to the




Author Manuscript
                                       contralateral location and less frequently to the ipsilateral location. MIΔd′ > 0 indicates
                                       stronger firing rates when the animal was more accurate in discriminating between
                                       orientation changes and matches at the contralateral location and less accurate at the
                                       ipsilateral location. Modulation indices were computed separately for each of two
                                       orientations in each session and then averaged.

                                       To compute the peri-event time histogram for each neuron, spikes were convolved with the
                                       trial-averaged histogram with a Gaussian kernel with σ = 8 ms. The PETH and modulation
                                       index for the sample period were computed using all complete trials (H, M, CR, FA). The
                                       PETH aligned to the test includes only trials in which the animal withheld from a response
                                       (CR and M), and the PETH aligned to the saccade included only trials in which the animal
                                       made a response (H and FA). PETHs and modulation indices were almost identical if only
                                       correct trials were used because they far outnumbered incorrect trials. We included error




Author Manuscript
                                       trials in neuronal measurements because our behavioral measurements required error trials.
                                       PETH for the test or saccade periods used trials in which the test or the saccade appeared in
                                       the neuron’s preferred stimulus location, as determined by its SSIvisual for the test period and
                                       SSIpresac for the saccade period.

                                       In Figure 4, the MIs and PETHs of each unit that was recorded during multiple sessions
                                       were averaged across sessions of the same isolation.

                                       Partial correlation between Ml and SSI—For the analyses in Figures 5 and Table S1,
                                       we included only neurons recorded from the 33/48 sessions in which we achieved behavioral
                                       isolation at both the ipsilateral and contralateral stimulus locations. For each unit that was
                                       recorded during multiple sessions, an SSI of each type (SSIvisual, SSIdelay, SSIpresac, or




Author Manuscript
                                       SSIpostsac) and a MI of each type (MIΔc or MIΔd′) was computed for that unit by averaging
                                       across sessions. The partial correlation coefficient between a MI and each SSI was computed
                                       by first fitting a linear model to explain the MI using the three SSIs being controlled and an
                                       intercept. A second model was fitted to explain the SSI that is being correlated using the
                                       SSIs being controlled and an intercept. The residuals from the two models were correlated to
                                       give the partial correlation.

                                       The 95% confidence interval (CI) of each correlation coefficient was computed using the
                                       Fisher Z-transformation:




Author Manuscript




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                            Page 19


                                       where tanh is the hyperbolic tangent function, r is the correlation coefficient, N is the sample




Author Manuscript
                                       size, and atanh the inverse hyperbolic tangent function.

                                       Pairwise correlation and Fano factor—Pairwise correlation was the linear correlation
                                       between the spike counts of pairs of simultaneously recorded neurons across trials. Fano
                                       factor was computed as each neuron’s spike count variance across trials divided by its spike
                                       count average across trials. Both pairwise correlation and Fano factor were based on spike
                                       counts during the period 80-480 ms after the onset of the sample stimulus during all
                                       complete trials (H, M, FA, and CR). Both were computed separately for each of the two
                                       sample orientations and then averaged. For each unit that was recorded during multiple
                                       sessions, Fano factor values were averaged across sessions of the same isolation. Similarly,
                                       for each pair of unit that was present in multiple sessions, correlation values were also
                                       averaged across sessions of the same isolation.




Author Manuscript
                                       Because pairwise correlations can be negative, the standard modulation index was not used
                                       to index changes in correlations. Instead, differences in pairwise correlation between task
                                       conditions were normalized to the average correlation across pairs in either the high c contra
                                       condition (for pairs from Δc isolations) or the low d′ contra condition (for pairs from Δd′
                                       isolations). Normalized differences were also computed for Fano factors, even though Fano
                                       factors are always positive, so that the size of Fano factor modulations can be compared to
                                       that of pairwise correlation modulations.

                                       Comparison between LPFC and V4—In Figure 7, we compared the activity of contra-
                                       selective visual neurons in LPFC to the activity of V4 neurons that were recorded in the
                                       experiments described in Luo & Maunsell (2015). In the V4 dataset, the sample stimuli
                                       appeared for only 200 ms rather than 400 ms in the LPFC dataset and no memory-guided




Author Manuscript
                                       saccade task was performed. To facilitate comparison, firing rates of contra-selective visual
                                       neurons in LPFC were computed between 80 ms to 280 ms after sample onset. Moreover,
                                       we computed an approximate SSIvisual for each V4 unit. But because V4 neurons have
                                       entirely contralateral receptive fields, SSIvisual was approximated by performing a ROC
                                       analysis comparing firing rates to the sample stimulus (60 ms to 260 ms after sample onset)
                                       to the baseline response during the 200 ms before sample onset.

                                       The attention-related change in firing rate or Fano factor of each neuron was normalized to
                                       the average across all neurons in that area in either the high c contra or low d′ contra task
                                       condition. Similarly, the change in the correlation of each neuronal pair was normalized to
                                       the average correlation across all pairs in that area in either the high c contra or low d′
                                       contra task condition.




Author Manuscript
                                       Two models were fitted to the normalized changes in firing rates in LPFC and V4 (Figure
                                       7B-C). The distribution of normalized firing rate changes for each brain area and for each
                                       attention component was modeled as a normal distribution. In the first model, the means of
                                       Δd′-related changes in LPFC, Δc-related changes in LPFC, and Δd′-related changes in V4
                                       were allowed to vary. However, the mean of Δc-related changes in V4 was constrained to be
                                       zero. The standard deviation (σ) of each distribution was constrained to be the sample
                                       standard deviation of each distribution. If σ were allowed to vary, the resulting log-


                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                           Page 20


                                       likelihood ratios would be little changed and the fitted σ would be similar to the sample




Author Manuscript
                                       standard deviation.




Author Manuscript
                                       In the second model, the means of Δd′-related changes and Δc-related changes in LPFC are
                                       again allowed to vary. However, the means of changes in V4 are constrained to be related to
                                       the changes in LPFC by a multiplicative factor, which was allowed to vary.




Author Manuscript


                                       Each model had three parameters, and they were fitted using maximum likelihood estimation
                                       and using the fminunc function in MATLAB. When fitting the models, because different
                                       numbers of neurons were recorded in different brain areas and in different types of
                                       behavioral isolation, we subsampled the neurons such that each combination of brain area




Author Manuscript
                                       and isolation type had the same number of neurons, which was the minimum across
                                       combinations. For example, for SSIvisual > 0.75, the minimum was 99 neurons recoded in
                                       LPFC during Δc isolations. Subsampling followed by model fitting were repeated for 104
                                       iterations, and we reported the median, 2.5 percentile, and 97.5 percentile of the
                                       bootstrapped distribution of likelihood ratios. These same analyses were performed for
                                       normalized changes in pairwise correlation and in Fano factor.




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                            Page 21


                                       To determine whether individual units in V4 and LPFC were significantly modulated in
                                       correlation with either Δc or Δd′ (Figure 7D-E), we fitted a Poisson model to the neuron’s




Author Manuscript
                                       trial-by-trial spike count during the sample period. We did not simply perform a statistical
                                       test comparing the neuron’s firing rates across trials in the two different task conditions
                                       because many V4 units showed slow change in firing rates (either increase or decrease) over
                                       the course of a recording session. The probability of the number of spikes emitted by each
                                       neuron during the sample period in each trial was modeled as:




Author Manuscript
                                       where K is the spike count, t is the trial number, θ is either a 0 or 1 indexing the orientation
                                       of the sample stimulus, and attention = 1 for either the low c contra condition or high d′
                                       contra condition, and 0 otherwise. An additional restricted model was fitted to the trial-by-
                                       trial spike counts, with the constraint β3 = 0. The restricted model and the unrestricted
                                       model were fitted using maximum likelihood estimation, and the two models were compared
                                       using a likelihood ratio test, thereby giving the p-value of a neuron being significantly
                                       modulated.

                                       Correlation between Δc- and Δd′-related firing rate Ml—Firing rates modulation
                                       indices (MI) in Figure 8 were computed by counting spikes 80-280 ms after sample onset for
                                       units recorded in LPFC and 60-260 ms after sample onset for units in V4. For each unit that
                                       was recorded for multiple sessions, its MI from different sessions were paired. These pairs




Author Manuscript
                                       of MI were pooled across units and sorted according to whether a pair came from the same
                                       behavioral isolation (same-isolation MI pair) or different behavioral isolations (Δc/Δd′ MI
                                       pair).

                                       Different number of sessions intervened between the earlier and later session of each MI pair
                                       (0-23 for LPFC; 0-43 for V4). On average, more sessions intervened between Δc/Δd′ MI
                                       pairs than between same-isolation MI pairs because the same behavioral isolation occurred
                                       at least five sessions in a row (Figure S7A-B). To control for this difference, we matched the
                                       distributions of intervening sessions between the two types of MI pairs. For each value of
                                       intervening session, the MI pairs of the type that had more pairs were subsampled to have
                                       the same number of pairs as the other type. Subsampled pairs across all values of intervening
                                       session were pooled to compute a correlation coefficient. Random subsampling was repeated
                                       1000 times. The median correlation coefficient across the 1000 iterations and its associated




Author Manuscript
                                       confidence interval (computed using the Fisher Z-transform) were reported in Figure 8C.

                                       The normalized Δc/Δd′ correlation was obtained by dividing the Δc/Δd′ correlation by the
                                       same-isolation correlation, and its 95% confidence interval was computed through
                                       bootstrapping. First, correlation coefficients (ρ) were Z-transformed:




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                             Page 22




Author Manuscript
                                       Then, the standard error of the Z-transformed coefficient was computed as:




                                       Because both types of MI pairs had the same sample size after distribution-matching, the
                                       two Z-transformed coefficients had the same standard error. Then, 105 random samples were
                                       drawn from each of these normal distributions:




Author Manuscript
                                       These random samples were transformed into correlation coefficients, and a ratio was taken
                                       between each pair of random samples:




Author Manuscript                      The 2.5 and 97.5 percentiles of the resulting distribution of ratios was taken as the 95%
                                       confidence interval.

                                       Linear Fisher information—In Figure S5, linear Fisher information was computed
                                       following the methods in Kantscheider et al. (2015). In each session, we computed the
                                       differences in the trial-averaged firing rates to the Gabor stimuli of two different orientations
                                       for all units with SSIvisual > 0.75.




Author Manuscript
                                       dμ is a vector with a number of elements equal to the number of units with SSIvisual > 0.75
                                       in that session. We further computed the inverse of the average of the covariance matrices
                                       for each orientation.




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                                                Page 23




Author Manuscript
                                       Linear Fisher information was computed as




                                       where dθ is the difference in orientation between the two stimuli in radians, T is the number
                                       of trials, and N is the number of units. For sessions in which the number of trials differed for
                                       the two orientations, we subsampled the condition with more trials across 1000 iterations
                                       and averaged the estimated linear Fisher information across iterations.




Author Manuscript
                                       Shuffled linear Fisher information was computed as




                                       where dμi is the trial-averaged firing rate difference between the two stimuli for neuron i and
                                         is its sample variance. Results were similar across a broad range of minimum SSIvisual
                                       (not shown).

                       QUANTIFICATION AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS




Author Manuscript
                                       The details of all statistical tests performed are describe in the Method Details section, in the
                                       main text, or in the figure captions. Details include the number of neuronal units and
                                       recording sessions used for each analysis. Error bars and shaded regions on plots indicate
                                       either mean ± SEM (Figures 3, 4, 6, 7A) or 95% confidence interval (Figures 2, 5, 7C, 8).


                       Supplementary Material
                                       Refer to Web version on PubMed Central for supplementary material.


                       Acknowledgments
                                       We thank Richard T. Born, Jackson J. Cone, Supriya Ghosh, and Bram-Ernst Verhoef for comments and discussion;
                                       Peter J. Wiese for technical assistance; Michael Petrides for advice on the anatomical locations of implanted arrays;
                                       and Ruben Coen-Cagli on advice on computing Fisher information. This work was supported by grants from the




Author Manuscript
                                       NIH R01EY005911 and F31MH103895.


                       References
                                       Arcizet F, Mirpour K, Foster DJ, Bisley JW. Activity in LIP, but not V4, matches performance when
                                         attention is spread. Cerebral Cortex. 2017:1–15.
                                       Bashinski HS, Bacharach VR. Enhancement of perceptual sensitivity as the result of selectively
                                         attending to spatial locations. Percept Psychophys. 1980; 28:241–248. [PubMed: 7433002]



                                                Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                                   Page 24


                                       Bichot NP, Heard MT, DeGennaro EM, Desimone R. A source for feature-based attention in the
                                          prefrontal cortex. Neuron. 2015; 88:832–844. [PubMed: 26526392]




Author Manuscript
                                       Bisley JW, Goldberg ME. Attention, intention, and priority in the parietal lobe. Annu Rev Neurosci.
                                          2010; 33:1–21. [PubMed: 20192813]
                                       Briggs F, Mangun GR, Usrey WM. Attention enhances synaptic efficacy and the signal-to-noise ratio
                                          in neural circuits. Nature. 2013; 499:476–480. [PubMed: 23803766]
                                       Buschman TJ, Miller EK. Top-down versus bottom-up control of attention in the prefrontal and
                                          posterior parietal cortices. Science. 2007; 315:1860–1862. [PubMed: 17395832]
                                       Carrasco M. Visual attention: the past 25 years. Vision Res. 2011; 51:1484–1525. [PubMed:
                                          21549742]
                                       Cavanaugh J, Wurtz RH. Subcortical modulation of attention counters change blindness. J Neurosci.
                                          2004; 24:11236–11243. [PubMed: 15601929]
                                       Chang MH, Armstrong KM, Moore T. Dissociation of response variability from firing rate effects in
                                          frontal eye field neurons during visual stimulation, working memory, and attention. J Neurosci.
                                          2012; 32:2204–2216. [PubMed: 22323732]
                                       Cohen MR, Maunsell JHR. Attention improves performance primarily by reducing interneuronal




Author Manuscript
                                            correlations. Nat Neurosci. 2009; 12:1594–1600. [PubMed: 19915566]
                                       Dickey AS, Suminski A, Amit Y, Hatsopoulos NG. Single-unit stability using chronically implanted
                                            multielectrode arrays. J Neurophysiol. 2009; 102:1331–1339. [PubMed: 19535480]
                                       Desimone R, Duncan J. Neural mechanisms of selective visual attention. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1995;
                                            18:193–222. [PubMed: 7605061]
                                       Downing CJ. Expectancy and visual-spatial attention: Effects on perceptual quality. J Exp Psychol
                                            Hum Percept Perform. 1988; 14:188–202. [PubMed: 2967876]
                                       Eckstein MP, Shimozaki SS, Abbey CK. The footprints of visual attention in the Posner cueing
                                            paradigm revealed by classification images. J Vis. 2002; 2:25–45. [PubMed: 12678595]
                                       Fraser GW, Schwartz AB. Recording from the same neurons chronically in motor cortex. J
                                            Neurophysiol. 2012; 107:1970–1978. [PubMed: 22190623]
                                       Funahashi S. Saccade-related activity in the prefrontal cortex: its role in eye movement control and
                                            cognitive functions. Front Integr Neurosci. 2014; 8:54. [PubMed: 25071482]
                                       Funahashi S, Bruce CJ, Goldman-Rakic PS. Visuospatial coding in primate prefrontal neurons revealed




Author Manuscript
                                            by oculomotor paradigms. J Neurophysiol. 1990; 63:814–831. [PubMed: 2341879]
                                       Funahashi S, Bruce CJ, Goldman-Rakic PS. Neuronal activity related to saccadic eye movements in
                                            the monkey’s dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. J Neurophysiol. 1991; 65:1464–1483. [PubMed:
                                            1875255]
                                       Goldberg ME, Wurtz RH. Activity of superior colliculus in behaving monkey. II. Effect of attention on
                                            neuronal responses. J Neurophysiol. 1972; 35:560–574. [PubMed: 4624740]
                                       Green, DM., Swets, JA. Signal Detection Theory and Psychophysics. Peninsula Publishing; 1966.
                                       Gregoriou GG, Gotts SJ, Desimone R. Cell-type-specific synchronization of neural activity in FEF
                                            with V4 during attention. Neuron. 2012; 73:581–594. [PubMed: 22325208]
                                       Hawkins HL, Hillyard SA, Luck SJ, Mouloua M. Visual attention modulates signal detectability. J Exp
                                            Psychol Hum Percept Perform. 1990; 16:802–811. [PubMed: 2148593]
                                       Ignashchenkova A, Dicke PW, Haarmeier T, Thier P. Neuron-specific contribution of the superior
                                            colliculus to overt and covert shifts of attention. Nat Neurosci. 2003; 7:56–64. [PubMed:
                                            14699418]




Author Manuscript
                                       Kadohisa M, Petrov P, Stokes M, Sigala N, Buckley M, Gaffan D, Kusunoki M, Duncan J. Dynamic
                                            construction of a coherent attentional state in a prefrontal cell population. Neuron. 2013; 80:235–
                                            246. [PubMed: 24035763]
                                       Kanitscheider I, Coen-Cagli R, Kohn A, Pouget A. Measuring Fisher information accurately in
                                            correlated neural populations. PLoS Comput Biol. 2015; 11:e1004218. [PubMed: 26030735]
                                       Knudsen EI. Fundamental components of attention. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007; 30:57–78. [PubMed:
                                            17417935]
                                       Krauzlis RJ, Lovejoy LP, Zénon A. Superior colliculus and visual spatial attention. Annu Rev
                                            Neurosci. 2013; 36:165–182. [PubMed: 23682659]


                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                                     Page 25


                                       Krauzlis RJ, Bollimunta A, Arcizet F, Wang L. Attention as an effect not a cause. Trends Cogn Sci.
                                           2014; 18:457–464. [PubMed: 24953964]




Author Manuscript
                                       Leavitt ML, Pieper F, Sachs AJ, Martinez-Trujillo JC. Correlated variability modifies working memory
                                           fidelity in primate prefrontal neuronal ensembles. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2017; 114:E2494–
                                           E2503. [PubMed: 28275096]
                                       Lennert T, Martinez-Trujillo J. Strength of response suppression to distracter stimuli determines
                                           attentional-filtering performance in primate prefrontal neurons. Neuron. 2011; 70:141–152.
                                           [PubMed: 21482363]
                                       Lovejoy LP, Krauzlis RJ. Inactivation of primate superior colliculus impairs covert selection of signals
                                           for perceptual judgments. Nat Neurosci. 2009; 13:261–266. [PubMed: 20023651]
                                       Lovejoy LP, Krauzlis RJ. Changes in perceptual sensitivity related to spatial cues depends on
                                           subcortical activity. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2017; 114:6122–6126. [PubMed: 28533384]
                                       Luo TZ, Maunsell JHR. Neuronal modulations in visual cortex are associated with only one of
                                           multiple components of attention. Neuron. 2015; 86:1182–1188. [PubMed: 26050038]
                                       Lynch JC, Mountcastle VB, Talbot WH, Yin TC. Parietal lobe mechanisms for directed visual
                                           attention. J Neurophysiol. 1977; 40:362–389. [PubMed: 403251]




Author Manuscript
                                       Macmillan NA, Creelman DC. Response bias: Characteristics of detection theory, threshold theory, and
                                           “nonparametric” indexes. Psychol Bull. 1990; 107:401–413.
                                       Macmillan, NA., Creelman, DC. Detection Theory: A User’s Guide. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates;
                                           2004.
                                       Maunsell JHR. Neuronal mechanisms of visual attention. Annu Rev Vis Sci. 2015; 1:373–391.
                                           [PubMed: 28532368]
                                       Maunsell JHR, Cook EP. The role of attention in visual processing. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol
                                           Sci. 2002; 357:1063–1072. [PubMed: 12217174]
                                       McAlonan K, Cavanaugh J, Wurtz RH. Guarding the gateway to cortex with attention in visual
                                           thalamus. Nature. 2008; 456:391–394. [PubMed: 18849967]
                                       Mitchell JF, Sundberg KA, Reynolds JH. Differential attention-dependent response modulation across
                                           cell classes in macaque visual area V4. Neuron. 2007; 55:131–141. [PubMed: 17610822]
                                       Mitchell JF, Sundberg KA, Reynolds JH. Spatial attention decorrelates intrinsic activity fluctuations in
                                           macaque area V4. Neuron. 2009; 63:879–888. [PubMed: 19778515]




Author Manuscript
                                       Moore T, Zirnsak M. Neural mechanisms of selective visual attention. Annu Rev Psychol. 2017;
                                           68:47–72. [PubMed: 28051934]
                                       Moran J, Desimone R. Selective attention gates visual processing in the extrastriate cortex. Science.
                                           1985; 229:782–784. [PubMed: 4023713]
                                       Müller HJ, Findlay JM. Sensitivity and criterion effects in the spatial cuing of visual attention. Percept
                                           Psychophys. 1987; 42:383–399. [PubMed: 3684496]
                                       Müller HJ, Humphreys GW. Luminance-increment detection: capacity-limited or not? J Exp Psychol
                                           Hum Percept Perform. 1991; 17:107–124. [PubMed: 1826306]
                                       Muller JR, Philiastides MG, Newsome WT. Microstimulation of the superior colliculus focuses
                                           attention without moving the eyes. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2004; 102:524–529. [PubMed:
                                           15601760]
                                       Petrides M, Pandya DN. Dorsolateral prefrontal cortex: comparative cytoarchitectonic analysis in the
                                           human and the macaque brain and corticocortical connection patterns. Eur J Neurosci. 1999;
                                           11:1011–1036. [PubMed: 10103094]




Author Manuscript
                                       Petrides M, Pandya DN. Comparative cytoarchitectonic analysis of the human and the macaque
                                           ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and corticocortical connection patterns in the monkey. Eur J
                                           Neurosci. 2002; 16:291–310. [PubMed: 12169111]
                                       Posner MI, Snyder CR, Davidson BJ. Attention and the detection of signals. J Exp Psychol. 1980;
                                           109:160–174. [PubMed: 7381367]
                                       Purcell BA, Heitz RP, Cohen JY, Schall JD. Response variability of frontal eye field neurons modulates
                                           with sensory input and saccade preparation but not visual search salience. J Neurophysiol. 2012;
                                           108:2737–2750. [PubMed: 22956785]




                                               Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                                   Page 26


                                       Sridharan D, Steinmetz NA, Moore T, Knudsen EI. Does the superior colliculus control perceptual
                                           sensitivity or choice bias during attention? Evidence from a multialternative decision framework. J




Author Manuscript
                                           Neurosci. 2017; 37:480–511. [PubMed: 28100734]
                                       Steinmetz NA, Moore T. Eye movement preparation modulates neuronal responses in area V4 when
                                           dissociated from attentional demands. Neuron. 2014; 83:496–506. [PubMed: 25033188]
                                       Thompson KG, Bichot NP. A visual salience map in the primate frontal eye field. Prog Brain Res.
                                           2005; 147:251–262. [PubMed: 15581711]
                                       Thompson KG, Biscoe KL, Sato TR. Neuronal basis of covert spatial attention in the frontal eye field.
                                           J Neurosci. 2005; 25:9479–9487. [PubMed: 16221858]
                                       Tremblay S, Pieper F, Sachs A, Martinez-Trujillo J. Attentional filtering of visual information by
                                           neuronal ensembles in the primate lateral prefrontal cortex. Neuron. 2015; 85:202–215. [PubMed:
                                           25500502]
                                       Verhoef BE, Maunsell JHR. Attention-related changes in correlated neuronal activity arise from
                                           normalization mechanisms. Nat Neurosci. 2017; 20:969–977. [PubMed: 28553943]
                                       Walker AE. A cytoarchitectural study of the prefrontal area of the macaque monkey. J Comp Neurol.
                                           1940; 73:59–86.




Author Manuscript
                                       Wurtz RH, Mohler CW. Enhancement of visual responses in monkey striate cortex and frontal eye
                                           fields. J Neurophysiol. 1976; 39:766–772. [PubMed: 823304]
                                       Wyart V, Nobre AC, Summerfield C. Dissociable prior influences of signal probability and relevance
                                           on visual contrast sensitivity. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2012; 109:3593–3598. [PubMed:
                                           22331901]
                                       Zénon A, Krauzlis RJ. Attention deficits without cortical deficits. Nature. 2012; 489:434–437.
                                           [PubMed: 22972195]




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                        Page 27



                                                                               Highlights




Author Manuscript
                                       •        Two behavioral components of visuospatial attention were isolated.

                                       •        Visual responses in lateral prefrontal cortex were robustly modulated by either
                                                component.

                                       •        Modulations in lateral prefrontal cortex and visual cortical area V4 were
                                                qualitatively different.

                                       •        The results indicate separate brain areas are associated with distinct
                                                mechanisms of attention.




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript




                                           Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                           Page 28




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript



                                       Figure 1. Visuospatial attention can be partitioned using signal detection theory
                                       (A) In the signal detection model, each stimulus evokes a noisy internal signal. If the signal
                                       is stronger than the criterion (c), the stimulus is reported as a target. The distributions of
                                       internal signals evoked by the target and by the nontarget overlap, and the separation




Author Manuscript
                                       between these two distributions is indexed as sensitivity (d′). The subject’s response to each
                                       stimulus is categorized as a hit (H), miss (M), false alarm (FA), or correct rejection (CR),
                                       and the frequency of these responses are used to calculate c and d′. (B) An increase in hit
                                       rate, which is used to operationalize attention in many single-neuron studies, typically
                                       consists of a combination of changes in criterion and sensitivity (Luo and Maunsell, 2015).
                                       A typical behavioral change of this sort is shown (in gray), along with an isolated change in
                                       criterion (in orange) and an isolated change in sensitivity (in blue). The dashed orange line
                                       represents an isopleth along which d′ is constant and only c varies, and the dashed blue line
                                       represents the isopleth along which c is constant and only d′ varies. Any change in hit rate
                                       can be brought about by a change in criterion alone, a change in sensitivity alone, or both.




Author Manuscript




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                           Page 29




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript
                                       Figure 2. Isolation of attentional changes in criterion and sensitivity
                                       (A) Monkeys had to detect an orientation change that occurred on either the first or second
                                       test stimulus and report it with a saccade. If no change occurred on the first test, monkeys
                                       had to wait for a change that would always occur on the second test. In a trial in which a
                                       change occurred on the first test, the outcome was categorized as either a hit (H) or a miss
                                       (M), and when no change occurred on the first test, the outcome was either a false alarm
                                       (FA) or a correct rejection (CR). (B) Average reward parameters and behavioral indices




Author Manuscript
                                       across sessions. Each session consists of two task conditions, and isolation was achieved by
                                       varying reward sizes between the two conditions. Criterion was controlled primarily using
                                       the ratio of reward for a H to a reward for a CR (“H:CR reward ratio”), and sensitivity was
                                       controlled primarily using the average reward across H and CR. The task condition (high d′,
                                       low d′, low c, or high c) indicates the animal’s performance at the contralateral location. (C)
                                       Reward contingencies in each daily session. Each marker refers to one of the two task
                                       conditions of each session, and the pair of markers representing the same session are
                                       connected by a line. The data are from 24 Δc isolation sessions (shown in orange) and 24 Δd
                                       ′ isolation sessions (in blue). Diamonds and squares represent monkeys C and Y,
                                       respectively. (D) Hit rates and false alarm rates of each task condition of each daily session.
                                       (E) Criterion and sensitivity of each task condition of each daily session. (F) Criterion
                                       change and sensitivity change in each session. Crosshairs in D-F represent 95% confidence




Author Manuscript
                                       intervals. See also Figure S1.




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                           Page 30




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript

                                       Figure 3. A memory-guided saccade task was used to index spatially selective
                                       (A) After acquiring fixation, a target (0.4° white square) appeared for 400 ms in either the
                                       left or right hemifield. After a delay of 750-1000 ms, the fixation point disappeared to cue
                                       animal to saccade to the remembered location of the target. A spatial selectivity index (SSI)
                                       was computed for each neuron during each of four task periods. The 100 ms time window
                                       with the maximal firing rate was selected separately for events in the contralateral and




Author Manuscript
                                       ipsilateral hemifield. Contralateral and ipsilateral firing rates were then compared using a
                                       receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, and the resulting area under the ROC curve
                                       was the SSI. SSI > 0.5 indicates stronger activity at the contralateral location. Shaded
                                       regions indicate the range of time windows that can be selected for computing SSI. (B) The
                                       peri-event time histogram (PETH) of an example unit was computed by convolving spikes
                                       with a Gaussian with σ = 25 ms. Solid lines correspond to trials with a contralateral target
                                       and saccade. Shaded bars indicate the time windows used to compute the SSI during each
                                       period. Darker shading corresponds to contralateral events and lighter to ipsilateral events.
                                       The example was selected by picking the unit that had the lowest SSIvisual among those with
                                       SSIvisual > 0.75. (C) Distributions of SSI were centered close to 0.5, but SSIvisual was
                                       skewed more towards 1 than other SSIs. N = 1,088. (D) Partial correlations between each
                                       pair of SSI’s. No reliable correlation was detected between SSIvisual and either SSIpresac or




Author Manuscript
                                       SSIpostsac. N = 1,088. (E) Contra-selective visual units with SSIvisual > 0.75. To compute the
                                       population-averaged PETH, each unit was normalized by the maximal value in its PETH.
                                       The maximum of the y-axis is 0.75 times the average peak firing rate across the population.
                                       Shading indicates mean ± SEM.




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                               Page 31




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript




                                       Figure 4. Visual responses increased when the subject either lowered its criterion or increased its




Author Manuscript
                                       sensitivity
                                       (A) PETH of units with SSIvisual > 0.75 during the attention task. Orange lines represent
                                       units recorded during Δc isolations, and blue lines represent units from Δd′ isolations.
                                       Spikes were convolved with a Gaussian with σ = 8 ms. The maxima of the y-axes are 0.75
                                       times the average peak firing rate across the population. Shading indicates mean ± SEM.
                                       The bar near the x-axis indicates the sample period (80-480 ms after sample onset). Either
                                       lowering c or elevating d′ increased the firing rates of visual neurons throughout the sample
                                       period and into the test period. (B) Modulation index (MI) of firing rates during the period

                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                          Page 32


                                       80-480 ms after sample onset as function of the minimum SSIvisual of the units included for




Author Manuscript
                                       analysis. A Δc-related modulation index > 0 indicates stronger firing rates when the animal
                                       responded more frequently to the contralateral location. A Δd′-related MI > 0 indicates
                                       stronger firing rates when the animal was more accurate in discriminating between an
                                       orientation change and a match at the contralateral position. Shading indicates mean ± SEM
                                       across units. Modulation indices related to either Δc or Δd′ are greater than 0 regardless of
                                       the SSIvisual threshold. The sample sizes for minimum SSIvisual = 0.51 were 492 units from
                                       Δc isolations and 567 units from Δd′ isolations. (C) P-values were computed using the
                                       Wilcoxon signed-rank test for a zero median in the distribution of Δc-related modulation
                                       indices (orange) or Δd′-related indices (blue) and from the Wilcoxon rank-sum test of Δc-
                                       and Δd′-related indices having the same median (gray). See also Figure S4.




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                              Page 33




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript
                                       Figure 5. Firing rate modulations were correlated with spatial selectivity measured from
                                       multiple periods of the memory-guided saccade task
                                       Partial correlation between firing rate MI and each SSI (among SSIvisual, SSIdelay, SSIpresac,
                                       and SSIpostsac) while controlling for the other three SSI. The left column of panels (orange)
                                       corresponds to Δc-related modulations and the right column (blue) to Δd′-related
                                       modulations. Only the 33/48 sessions in which behavior was isolated at both the ipsilateral
                                       and contralateral locations were included for this analysis. N = 559 units from Δc isolations
                                       and 667 units from Δd′ isolations. Vertical bars indicate 95% confidence interval. See also
                                       Table S1.




Author Manuscript




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                            Page 34




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript
                                       Figure 6. Pairwise correlation and Fano factor decreased when the animal either lowered its
                                       criterion or elevated its sensitivity
                                       (A) Pairwise correlations between contra-selective visual units decreased when the animal
                                       performed with a lower criterion or a higher sensitivity at the contralateral hemifield.
                                       Correlations were computed using firing rates during the sample period (80-480 ms after
                                       sample onset). The sample sizes for minimum SSIvisual = 0.51 and 0.75 were 25273 and 988
                                       pairs from Δc isolations and 26635 and 974 pairs from Δd′ isolations. (B) Changes in




Author Manuscript
                                       pairwise correlation were normalized by the population-averaged correlation in either high c
                                       contra condition (for Δc isolations) or the low d′ contra condition (for Δd′ isolations). (C)
                                       P-values were computed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test for a zero median in the
                                       distribution of normalized changes related to either Δc (orange) or Δd′ (blue) and using the
                                       Wilcoxon rank-sum test of Δc- and Δd′-related correlation changes having the same median
                                       (gray). (D) Fano factor of contra-selective visual neurons also decreased when the animal
                                       performed with either a lower criterion or higher sensitivity. Fano factor was computed using
                                       spike counts during the sample period. The sample sizes for SSIvisual = 0.51 and 0.75 were
                                       492 and 99 units from Δc isolations and 567 and 122 units from Δd′ isolations. (E)
                                       Normalized change in Fano factor. (F) P-values for normalized changes in Fano factor. See
                                       also Figure S5.




Author Manuscript




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                             Page 35




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript




                                       Figure 7. Neuronal modulations related to Δc were reliably observed in the population activity of




Author Manuscript
                                       LPFC but not of area V4
                                       (A) Normalized change in firing rate, pairwise correlation, and Fano factor of neurons in
                                       LPFC and V4 with SSIvisual > 0.75. Error bars indicate mean ± SEM. P-values were
                                       computed using a Wilcoxon signed-rank test. (B) Maximum likelihood fits from model 1
                                       (circles and dotted line) and from model 2 (squares and dashed lines). Model 1 assumes zero
                                       Δc-related modulations in V4, and model 2 assumes a multiplicative relationship between
                                       the modulations in V4 and LPFC. Each model has three parameters. The likelihood ratio and



                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                            Page 36


                                       its bootstrapped 95% confidence intervals are indicated at the bottom of the panel. (C) The




Author Manuscript
                                       likelihood ratio of model 1 to model 2 across thresholds of SSIvisual. The likelihood ratio
                                       was greater than one (favoring model 1) for all thresholds of SSIvisual for all three measures.
                                       For firing rate and pairwise correlation, the bootstrapped 95% confidence interval (shading)
                                       of the likelihood ratio was greater than one for a broad range of SSIvisual. (D) The fraction of
                                       neurons whose firing rates were significantly modulated in association with either Δc
                                       (orange lines) or Δd′ (blue lines) plotted against the threshold for statistical significance.
                                       Solid lines indicate the fraction with significantly increased firing rates, and dashed lines
                                       indicate the fraction with a significant decrease. Black lines indicate the discovery rate at
                                       chance (p-value divided by two). (E) The mean firing rate change across all neurons with an
                                       individually significant increase or decrease in their firing rates.




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript




Author Manuscript




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
                    Luo and Maunsell                                                                                           Page 37




Author Manuscript




                                       Figure 8. Firing rate modulations related to Δc and Δd′ were correlated across neurons in LPFC
                                       (A) Firing rate modulation indices (MI) from each pair of Δc-isolation session and Δd′-
                                       isolation session from each unit that was recorded in both sessions. Each marker indicates




Author Manuscript
                                       one pair of MI (576 pairs from 47 units that had a SSIvisual > 0.75). Both MIs of each pair
                                       belonged to the same unit. The slope of the regressed line (dashed, no intercept) was 1.72.
                                       (B) MIs from each pair of sessions with the same isolation from each unit that was recorded
                                       in both sessions. To combine MI pairs from Δc sessions (orange) and from Δd′ sessions
                                       (blue), MIs of each isolation type were z-scored (710 pairs from 79 units that had a SSIvisual
                                       > 0.75). (C) Correlations between Δc/Δd′ MI pairs and between same-isolation MI pairs.
                                       Correlations were calculated after distribution-matching the number of intervening sessions
                                       between each pair (Figure S7A-B). Shading indicates 95% confidence interval. (D)
                                       Normalized Δc/Δd′ correlations were computed by dividing Δc/Δd′ correlations by same-
                                       isolation correlations, and 95% confidence intervals were computed using a bootstrap
                                       procedure. Normalized correlations in LPFC were statistically indistinguishable from 1 and
                                       reliably different from normalized correlations in V4, which were indistinguishable from 0.




Author Manuscript
                                       See also Figure S7.




Author Manuscript




                                              Neuron. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2019 March 21.
