SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION


Neuronal modulations in visual cortex are associated with only one of multiple
components of attention
Thomas Zhihao Luo and John H. R. Maunsell


Supplemental Data
      Figure S1
      Figure S2
      Figure S3
      Figure S4


Supplemental Experimental Procedures
      Neurophysiological Recording
      Neuronal Analyses
             Inclusion of Neurons and Trials
             Noise Correlation and Fano Factor
             Modulation Index
      Standard Attention Task
      Dissociation Task
             Reward Titration
             Priming Trials
             Choice of Reward Parameters
             Sessions
             Inclusion of Sessions
             Confidence Intervals
      Methods for Figure S2
             Figure S2A
             Figure S2B-C


Supplemental References


                                                                                 1
SUPPLEMENTAL*DATA*




Figure S1 [related to Figure 1]. Different attention manipulations in the standard attention task
(preliminary experiment) all changed criterion and sensitivity between attention conditions.
Data are from the same sessions shown in Figure 1B, E and Figure S2. (A) In some sessions, attention was
controlled by setting the target probability to be 2 to 4 times higher at the attended location (n = 17). In different
sessions, the reward size was 2 to 4 times larger at the attended location (n = 75). In the remaining sessions, we
changed both target probability and reward size (n = 23). All three manipulations increased the subject’s hit rate
between attention conditions. (B) Both criterion (c) and sensitivity (d’) changed between task conditions for all
three manipulations. (C-E) Top: monkey F; bottom: monkey L. The bootstrapped 95% confidence interval is
shown for a representative session for each monkey. (C) Changes in criterion (Δc) and sensitivity (Δd’) between
attention conditions in each session. (D) Criterion (c) and sensitivity (d’) for attention condition of each session.
Each circle represents the behavior in one attention condition of each session, and each line connects the two
attention conditions of each session. (E) Plots of the hit rate and false alarm rate of each attention condition of

                                                                                                                         2
each session. Each circle represents the behavior in one attention condition of each session. Each solid line
connects the two attention conditions of each session. Dashed lines indicate isosensitivity and isocriterion lines.
Because the overall false alarm rates were low (~10% or less), the x-axis is plotted in logarithmic scale.
(F) Median values of behavioral measurements across sessions.




                                                                                                                      3
Figure S2 [related to Results]. Criterion changes accounted for most of the improvement in hit rate in the
standard attention task (preliminary experiment). Same sessions as in Figure 1B, E and Figure S1. Monkey F,
n = 65; monkey L, n = 50. (A) Because changes in both criterion and sensitivity contribute to the changes in hit
rate, for each session we computed the proportion of the change in hit rate (ΔH) separately due to the change in
criterion (Δc) or the change in sensitivity (Δd’). (B) Because Δc and Δd’ interact nonlinearly to produce the change
in hit rate, we also computed the theoretically minimum proportions of the observed change in hit rate separately
due to the observed Δc and Δd’. (C) The theoretically maximum proportions. All measures indicate that criterion
changes accounted for most of the changes in hit rate in the standard attention task.




                                                                                                                    4
Figure S3 [related to Figure 2]. Control of sensitivity and criterion in the dissociation task. (A) Reward time
course for an example criterion session and example sensitivity session. (B) Criterion (c) and sensitivity (d’) of all
sessions. Each circle plots the behavior of each task condition, and each line connects the two task conditions of
each session. Error bars indicate 95% bootstrapped confidence intervals. (C) Median values of behavioral
measurements across sessions. (B-C) Data are from the same sessions shown in Figure 2, Figure 3, Figure S4C,
and Table 1.

                                                                                                                         5
Figure S4 [related to Figure 3]. Changes
in neuronal firing rate and pairwise
correlations. (A) Two example neurons
from a criterion session. Each of the top
panels shows the trial-averaged PSTH of
one neuron in the low c and high c task
conditions. Gray bar indicates the trial
epoch used to compute noise correlation
(sample period; 60 ms to 260 ms after
sample onset). Each of the bottom panels
shows the noise correlation between the
two neurons in either the low c or high c
task condition. The color map for the
correlations plots the numbers of trials for a
given spike count pairing. (B) Two example
neurons from a sensitivity session and their
noise correlation in the high d’ and low d’
task conditions. Although large changes in
pairwise correlations were evident for the
population of neurons (Figure 3B), the data
from individual neurons were noisy.
(C) The distribution of modulation indices
of firing rate during the sample period (60
ms to 260 ms after sample onset) for all
responsive neurons in criterion sessions
and in sensitivity sessions.




                                              6
SUPPLEMENTAL EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURES

Neurophysiological Recording
         Neuronal activity was recorded while the animal performed the dissociation task as part of the
main experiment. Only behavior was recorded for the standard attention task as part of the preliminary
experiment.
         At the beginning of each recording session, we presented a variety of Gabor stimuli to
characterize the receptive fields of the neurons, and then we optimized stimulus parameters in the
dissociation task to drive as many neurons as possible. The stimulus inside the receptive fields of the
recorded neurons was set to an orientation 90º from the orientation of stimulus in the opposite hemifield
to minimize effects of feature attention. The receptive fields were in the lower hemifield and had
eccentricities 2-4° for monkey F and 5-7° for monkey L.
         Action potential waveforms were sorted offline using spike-sorting software (Plexon) that
computes principal component analysis scores for each spike. Waveforms were classified as a single
unit if the waveforms formed a cluster that was separate from other waveforms.


Neuronal Analyses


Neuronal Analyses – Inclusion of Neurons and Trials
         A neuronal unit was classified as visually responsive if its firing rate in the sample period (60 ms
to 260 ms after the onset of the sample stimulus) was on average greater than its firing rate during the
fixation period (200 ms to 0 ms before sample onset), and if its responses in the two periods were
significantly different (p < 0.01, t-test). The median number of responsive units per session and their
percentage among all recorded units were 50 units and 88% for monkey F and 80 units and 93% for
monkey L. Only responsive neurons were included in the PSTH in Figure 3A and in analyses of firing
rate and Fano factor. All neurons regardless of responsiveness were considered for computing pairwise
noise correlation (the results were almost identical if only responsive neurons were used).
         Single units and multiunits were combined for analyses. Separate analyses for the two
populations showed highly similar results, corresponding to previous findings (Cohen and Maunsell,
2009).
         Both correct (H and CR) and incorrect (M and FA) trials were used for neuronal analyses, but
we excluded trials with premature fixation breaks and priming trials. The results were highly similar if
only correct trials were used instead of both correct and incorrect trials. We included both correct and



                                                                                                            7
incorrect trials in the analyses because that would allow us to use the same set of trials to calculate
behavioral and neuronal changes.


Neuronal Analyses – Noise Correlation and Fano factor
        Noise correlation between each pair of simultaneously recorded neurons was computed as the
Pearson’s correlation coefficient of their firing rates across all trials.


                                                           Cov (FRi , FR j )
                                       ρ (FRi , FR j ) =
                                                                σi σ j



                                                                         (      )
The noise correlation of the ith neuron and jth neuron, denoted ρ FR i , FR j , is the covariance of the

firing rates of the two neurons across trials divided by the product of the standard deviations of each
neuron’s firing rates.
                                                           €
        In Figure 3B, the noise correlation of each pair of neurons is binned according to the geometric
mean of the evoked response of the two neurons. The evoked response of each neuron was calculated
as the firing rate during the sample period (60 ms to 260 ms after sample stimulus onset), averaged
across trials, minus the firing rate in the fixation period (200 ms to 0 ms before sample onset), also
averaged across trials. The bin less than 0 spikes/s includes all pairs of neurons whose geometric
mean evoked response is less than 0 spikes/s, and the bin greater than 30 spikes/s includes all pairs of
neurons whose mean evoked response is greater than 30 spikes/s.
        A single value of Fano factor was computed for each task condition of each session. For each
task condition, the spike count variance of each responsive unit was plotted against its spike count
mean, and we then fitted a line that was constrained to pass through zero. The slope of the regression
line was then taken as the Fano factor. Similar results were found if we instead computed a single Fano
factor for each responsive neuron in each task condition and then average across neurons to compute
the Fano factor for that task condition.


Neuronal Analyses – Modulation Index
        Modulation indices of firing rate were defined as the difference in mean firing rate between the
two task conditions divided by the sum. In sensitivity sessions, the modulation index was defined such
that a positive index indicates higher firing rates in the high d’ condition.




                                                                                                           8
                                          Δd '
                                        MIFR   =
                                                   (FR   high d '   − FR low d '   )
                                                   (FR   high d '   + FR low d '   )
In criterion sessions, a positive index indicates higher firing rates in the low c condition (the task
                              €
condition with the higher hit rate).



                                           Δc
                                         MIFR =
                                                   (FR   low c      − FR high c   )
                                                   (FR   low c   + FR high c      )
        Modulation indices for noise correlation and Fano factor were similarly defined: a positive index
                              €
indicates a higher value in the high d’ condition in sensitivity sessions and a higher value in the low c
condition in criterion sessions.
        For firing rates, a modulation index was computed for each neuron and then averaged across
the visually responsive neurons recorded in each session to provide a single modulation index for that
session. Highly similar results were found if we pool spikes across visually responsive neurons to
compute a population firing rate and calculate a modulation index of the population firing rate.
        Noise correlation was first averaged across all pairs of simultaneously recorded neurons for
each task condition. The noise correlation of the two task conditions of a daily session was then used to
compute the modulation index for that session.
        Fano factor was computed for each task condition as a single value (as described above), and
the modulation index was calculated using the Fano factor of each condition.
        In each session, the sample stimuli had one of two different orientations: the base or the base
plus change (e.g. 40° and 60° in a session in which the orientation change was 20°). Modulation indices
were computed separately for each orientation and then averaged between the two orientations to
provide a single index for each session.


Standard Attention Task
        The standard attention task was part of the preliminary experiment. Video display and visual
stimuli were the same as those in the dissociation task of the main experiment. The standard attention
task was a variant of the Posner attention paradigm frequently used in single-neuron studies of
attention. In each trial, monkeys fixated within a 1.5° window in the center of a video display. Two
Gabor stimuli flashed on for 200 ms and off for 200-400 ms, one in each visual hemifield. At an
unexpected time, a target stimulus appeared in one of the two locations. The monkey had to look at the


                                                                                                            9
target to receive a juice reward. The target was a change in the stimulus: an orientation change for
monkey L and a small white spot in the center of the Gabor for monkey F. When the target appeared,
the monkey had to saccade to it within 100-500 ms to receive a juice reward. The target could appear
on the third through seventh stimulus presentation (selected from a uniform distribution to discourage
guessing at the beginning of trials). No target appeared in 5% of the trials, and the monkey received a
reward if it maintained fixation past the seventh stimulus appearance.
       Monkeys alternated between blocks of 100-200 trials in which attention was directed to one of
two locations. Attention was controlled by setting the target probability to be 2 to 4 times higher at the
attended location, or in different sessions, the reward size to be 2 to 4 times larger at the attended
location. In the remaining sessions, we changed both target probability and reward size.
       To compute c and d’, each stimulus presentation in which a target could occur (third to seventh)
was categorized as a hit (H), miss (M), false alarm (FA), or correct rejection (CR). Stimulus
presentations with no target were classified as either correct rejections or false alarms, and
presentations with a target were categorized as hits or misses. Each presentation that was categorized
as a correct rejection was scored for both stimulus locations, and each presentation that was classified
as a hit, false alarm, or miss was scored only for the stimulus location where the target occurred or the
saccade was directed. For presentations that were hits, false alarms, or misses, it was equally valid to
score a correct rejection for other stimulus location or not to do so. We tried both methods of scoring,
and the results were highly similar because of the large number of correct rejections. We chose not to
score a correct rejection for the other stimulus location for presentations that were hits, misses, or false
alarms.


Dissociation Task


Dissociation Task – Reward Titration
       At the beginning of each session, reward parameters were set to values that were expected to
approximately isolate the behavioral difference appropriate for that session. As described in the
Experimental Procedures, a difference between the H:CR reward ratio at each stimulus location results
in a criterion difference between locations, and a difference between the overall reward size of the two
locations results in a sensitivity difference between locations. However, the animal’s criterion and
sensitivity at each stimulus location fluctuates over the course of a session. If reward contingencies
were kept constant throughout the session, we would not achieve reliable behavioral isolation
throughout each session. To achieve reliable isolation within each session, we adjusted the reward




                                                                                                             10
sizes by a small amount (typically 10%) to control for the animal’s fluctuating criterion and sensitivity
(reward time courses of two example sessions are shown in Figure S3A).
       In criterion sessions, reward was titrated after every 10-20 trials. If the animal’s d’ fluctuates to
be higher at one location than the other, the overall reward size for the location with higher d’ would be
decreased by a small amount, and reward at the location with lower d’ would be increased by the same
amount. The overall reward at the low c location averaged 90% of the reward at the high c location. The
H:CR ratios were adjusted to keep the criterion at the low c location near c = –1 and at the high c
location near c = 1. We found these values to produce the largest criterion difference while providing
statistically reliable measures of c and d’ given the number of trials an animal typically worked in a day.
       In sensitivity sessions, after each miss trial at either location, the hit reward at that location
would be increased by a small amount (typically 10%) and the CR reward at that location would be
decreased by the same amount. After each FA trial, the CR reward would be increased by a small
amount and the hit reward would be decreased by the same amount at the location of the error. The
ratio in overall reward size between the high d’ and low d’ locations averaged 5:1, and this ratio was
adjusted after every 10-20 trials. This difference in reward size between locations was adjusted to
maximize d’ difference while at the same time keeping the animal motivated to respond to the low d’
location so that we could obtain accurate behavioral measures at that location.


Dissociation Task – Priming Trials
       At the beginning of each task condition (one block of 240-360 trials), 10-80 priming trials were
presented to habituate the monkey to the reward contingencies of that task condition. In priming trials,
the test stimulus occurred at only one stimulus location, rather than appearing at a random one of the
two locations. Priming trials were presented as a continuous sequence and never interleaved with non-
priming trials and not used in behavioral or neuronal analyses.
       Priming trials were important for producing large, isolated differences in criterion or sensitivity.
Repeatedly testing the same location helped the animal to recognize the reward contingencies at that
location and stabilized its behavior. Typically, priming trials were presented to test a single location until
the monkey’s behavior stabilized for that location, and then priming trials were presented to test the
other location until behavior stabilizes there. Occasionally, a continuous sequence of 5-20 priming trials
was presented in the middle of a block to stabilize the animal’s behavior. On average, priming trials
made up 8% of all trials in a session for monkey F and 10% of all trials for monkey L.


Dissociation task – Choice of Reward Parameters




                                                                                                              11
          We chose to manipulate reward size and not target probability (probability of an orientation
change) because the animals adjusted their behavior more quickly to changes in reward size than to
changes in target probability. This was expected, as changes in reward size are apparent within a
single trial, whereas changes in target probability can only be assessed over many trials. We could
achieve much finer control over the animal’s behavior using reward size. Additionally, for a given
number of trials, more reliable statistics of behavioral performance are obtained when target probability
is 0.5.
          Either reward size or target probability would likely elicit the same neuronal signal, because
neuronal modulations associated with larger reward size and with higher target probability have similar
magnitude and timing, and these two types of neuronal modulations are also strongly correlated among
neurons in visual cortex (Stanisor et al., 2013).
          One potential concern is that because the behavioral changes in d’ are induced by differences
in relative reward, it is plausible that corresponding neuronal changes are more closely associated with
spatial differences in relative reward than with d’ changes. But there is good reason to believe that the
V4 neuronal changes are more closely associated with behavioral d’ than with relative reward. Task
difficulty modulates V4 responses in much the same ways as does attention (Spitzer et al. 1988;
Boudreau et al., 2006; Ruff and Cohen, 2014), even though changes in task difficulty do not involve any
change in relative reward. But, like higher relative reward, higher task difficulty increases behavioral d’.
Because higher relative reward and higher task difficulty are two separate experimental manipulations
that increase both the subject’s d’ and neuronal responses, we view the V4 modulations that we
observed in this study to be more closely related to changes in d’ than to changes in relative reward.


Dissociation Task – Sessions
          On each day, the monkey performed only a criterion session or only a sensitivity session. We
focused on isolating a single behavioral change each day to maximize the number of trials, which
maximized the statistical reliability of the behavioral measurements of criterion and sensitivity.
          Only two orientations were used for the sample and test stimuli at each location in each session.
On each trial, either orientation was equally likely to be selected to be the sample, and the orientation
was independently selected at each location. The difference between the two orientations specified the
task difficulty for that session, and it was selected to keep the animal challenged.
          Task difficulty was similar between criterion and sensitivity sessions for each monkey. For
monkey F, the orientation change averaged 20º (16º to 23º) in criterion sessions and 18º (14º to 25º) in
sensitivity sessions. For monkey L, the change was 90º for both criterion and sensitivity sessions.




                                                                                                            12
       The session type was alternated every six to eight days for monkey F. For monkey L, we
alternated after 31 days, but neuronal signals from the array degraded after 41 days of recording. For
each monkey and each session type, the results from the first half of the sessions were highly similar to
the results to the second half.


Dissociation Task – Inclusion of Sessions
       A session was excluded from analysis if the magnitude of the behavioral measure we sought to
keep constant (c or d’) had a z-score greater than 0.3 (resulting median 0.04) or if that measure was
greater than 1/3 of the behavioral measure we sought to vary (resulting median ratio 1/34). We
excluded 1 of 45 sessions for monkey F and 6 of 41 sessions for monkey L. Including these sessions in
the analyses did not affect the conclusions.


Dissociation task – Confidence intervals
       We calculated binomial confidence intervals for the hit rate and false alarm rate in each task
condition (Figure 3C-D, Figure S1E). Confidence intervals for c and d’ in each task condition (Figure
S3B) were computed through a bootstrapping method assuming binomial error around the observed hit
rate and false alarm rate. Confidence intervals were similarly calculated for the difference in c and d’
between the two task conditions of each session (Figure 3E).


Methods for Figure S2


Figure S2A: Proportion of the change in hit rate (Δ H) separately due to criterion change (Δ c)
alone or due to sensitivity change (Δ d’) alone
       In most sessions, changes in both criterion and sensitivity contributed to the changes in hit rate
between attention conditions in the standard attention task. Figure S2 shows analyses that isolate the
proportion of the change in hit rate (ΔH) separately due to the change in criterion (Δc) or the change in
sensitivity (Δd’). The intuition behind these analyses is to recalculate ΔH while keeping either c or d’ to
be the same in the high attention condition as in the low attention condition. The recomputed ΔH is then
divided by the observed ΔH to obtain a proportion of the observed ΔH that is due to Δc alone or due to
Δd’ alone.
       We first denote the hit rate (H) as a function of c or d’:


                                                     $d ' '
                                               H = Φ & − c)
                                                     %2   (

                                                                                                           13
                                    €
    In this equation, Φ is the normal cumulative distribution function. The hit rate for each attention
    condition (high attention or low attention) can be denoted as a function of the c and d’ measured in that
    condition.


                                                               #d '                                &
                                          H high attention = Φ % high attention − c high attention (
                                                               $     2                             '

                                                              #d '                              &
                                          H low attention = Φ % low attention − c low attention (
                                                              $    2                            '


    For each session, the observed change in hit rate (ΔH) between the two attention conditions is the
    difference in hit rate between the high attention condition and the hit rate in the low attention condition.


                                       ΔH = H high attention − H low attention


                                              $d '                                '
                                       ΔH = Φ & high attention − c high attention ) − H low attention
                                              %     2                             (


            We first show the calculations for the proportion of ΔH due to Δc alone. To obtain this proportion,
                                 Δc
    we recalculate ΔH as ΔH           , the change in hit rate solely due to the change in criterion. To compute
    ΔH Δc , we recalculated the hit rate for the high attention condition by fixing the d’ to be the same as the
    d’ in the low attention condition:

€
                                                d ' equalized
                                      ΔH Δc = H high  attention − H low attention



                                                $d '                               '
                                      ΔH Δc = Φ & low attention − c high attention ) − H low attention
                                                %    2                             (


                         d ' equalized
    The expression for H high  attention is the expression for H high attention except that d'high attention is changed to


    d'low attention . Finally, to obtain the proportion of ΔH solely due to the Δc, we divided ΔH Δc by observed
    ΔH.        €                                         €                                €

€                                                                                                   €

                                                                                                                             14
                                                                                           ΔH Δc
                                       Proportion of ΔH due to Δc alone =
                                                                                            ΔH


            We then similarly calculate the proportion of ΔH due to Δd’ alone. To obtain this proportion, we
                                                                         €
    need to calculate ΔH Δd ' , the change in hit rate solely due to the change in sensitivity.


                                   ΔH Δd ' = H high
                                               c equalized
                                                    attention − H low attention
            €

                                               % d 'high attention                   (
                                   ΔH Δd ' = Φ '                   − c low attention * − H low attention
                                               &        2                            )


    In the second equation, the first term is the expression for H high attention except with c high attention changed
                       €
    to c low attention . Finally, to obtain the proportion of ΔH solely due to the change in d’, we divided ΔH Δd ' by

    the observed ΔH.
                                                                €                                 €
                                                                                                Δd '
                                                                                           ΔH              €
€                                     Proportion of ΔH due to Δd’ alone =
                                                                                            ΔH


            These proportions are computed for each session and averaged across sessions to provide the
                                                                         €
    plot in Figure S2A.


    Figure S2B-C: Minimum and maximum proportions of the change in hit rate (Δ H) separately due
    to criterion change (Δ c) alone or due to sensitivity change (Δ d’) alone


            The analyses shown in Figure S2B and S2C were performed because Δc and Δd’ interact
    nonlinearly to determine ΔH. For each session we computed the theoretically minimum and maximum
    proportions of the observed ΔH separately due to the observed Δc and Δd’.
            We first show computations for the minimum proportion of observed ΔH that could be attributed
                                                                             Δc
    to the observed Δc. To obtain this proportion, we needed to calculate ΔH min , the minimum ΔH that
                                                 Δc
    could be attributed to Δc. In calculating ΔH min , criterion values for both attention conditions are not
    changed from the observed values, while d’ is a parameter that is varied to minimize the difference in
                                                                                  €
    hit rate between attention conditions.
                                     €




                                                                                                                     15
                              Δc
                           ΔH min              [
                                          varying d '
                                  = min H high
                                          d'
                                                             varying d '
                                               attention − H low attention          ]

                              Δc
                                        + %d '                  (     %d '                (.
                           ΔH min = min -Φ ' − c high attention * − Φ ' − c low attention * 0
                                     d' ,  &2                   )     &2                  )/


                                  [
                           d ' ∈ d 'low attention , d 'high attention   ]
                                                                            Δc
A single value of d’ is chosen for both attention conditions to minimize ΔH min . This value of d’ is
                €
selected from the interval delimited by the observed d’ values in the low attention and high attention
                                                                                               Δc
task conditions (d’low attention and d’high attention, respectively). The d’ that minimizes ΔH min was obtained
                                                                                €
using the MATLAB algorithm fminbnd. Finally, we obtained the minimum proportion of observed ΔH that
could be attributed to the observed Δc:
                                                                                            €

                                                                         Δc
                                                                      ΔH min
                                 Minimum proportion of ΔH due to Δc =
                                                                       ΔH


        We similarly computed maximum proportion of observed ΔH that could be attributed to the
                                                                            €
observed Δc:


                             Δc
                          ΔH max               [
                                         varying d '
                                 = max H high
                                          d'
                                                            varying d '
                                              attention − H low attention           ]

                             Δc
                                       + %d '                  (     %d '                (.
                          ΔH max = max -Φ ' − c high attention * − Φ ' − c low attention * 0
                                    d' , &2                    )     &2                  )/


                                 [
                          d ' ∈ d 'low attention , d 'high attention   ]
                                                                                           Δc
                                                                                        ΔH max
               €           Maximum proportion of ΔH due to Δc =
                                                                                         ΔH


        The minimum and maximum proportions of observed ΔH that could be attributed to the
                                                             Δd '
                                                                       € Δd '
observed Δd’ were similarly calculated. We first computed ΔH min  and ΔH max  , the minimum and
                                                         Δd '        Δd '
maximum ΔH that could be attributed to Δd’. To obtain ΔH min  and ΔH max  , sensitivity values for both

                                                               €                €
                                                         €                  €                                     16
attention conditions are not changed from the observed values, while c is a parameter that is varied to
minimize or maximize the difference in hit rate between attention conditions.


                               Δd '
                            ΔH min  = min #$H high
                                              varying c          varying c     %
                                                   attention − H low attention &
                                            c



                                          # (d '                  +     (d '                +%
                               Δd '
                            ΔH min  = min .Φ * high attention − c - − Φ * low attention − c -/
                                       c
                                          $ )      2              ,     )    2              ,&


                            c ∈ #$c high attention , c low attention %&



                              Δd '
                           ΔH max                 [
                                           varying c
                                   = max H high
                                            c
                                                              varying c
                                                attention − H low attention        ]
                                         + % d 'high attention    (     % d 'low attention     (.
                              Δd '
                           ΔH max  = max -Φ '                  − c* − Φ '                  − c *0
                                      c
                                         , &        2             )     &        2             )/


                                 [
                           c ∈ c high attention , c low attention   ]
                                                                           Δd '                Δd '
A single value of c is chosen for both attention conditions to minimize ΔH min  or maximize ΔH max  , and
               €
this value comes from the interval determined by observed c values in the low attention and high
                                                                                          Δd '        Δd '
attention task conditions (clow attention and chigh attention, respectively). Finally, ΔH min  and ΔH max  are each
                                                                              €                  €
divided by ΔH to obtain the proportions:

                                                                                 €
                                                                              Δd '
                                                                                   €
                                                                           ΔH min
                                     Minimum proportion of ΔH due to Δd’ =
                                                                            ΔH

                                                                                          Δd '
                                                                                       ΔH max
                                                         due to Δd’ =
                                 Maximum proportion of ΔH €
                                                                                        ΔH



                                                                          €




                                                                                                                      17
SUPPLEMENTAL REFERENCES

Boudreau, C.E., Williford, T.H., and Maunsell, J.H.R. (2006). Effects of task difficulty and target
likelihood in Area V4 of macaque monkeys. J. Neurophysiol. 96, 2377–2387.


Ruff, D.A., and Cohen, M.R. (2014). Global cognitive factors modulate correlated response variability
between V4 neurons. J. Neurosci. 34, 16408–16416.


Spitzer, H., Desimone, R., and Moran, J. (1988). Increased attention enhances both behavioral and
neuronal performance. Science 240, 338–340.


Stanisor, L., van der Togt, C., Pennartz, C.M.A., and Roelfsema, P.R. (2013). A unified selection signal
for attention and reward in primary visual cortex. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 110, 9136–9141.




                                                                                                        18
